[Why Is Rosh Hashanah Davening So Long?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/rh-davening)

Hi, it's David Olavsky. This is our new question and answer shorts format so that we make up the
backlog of all the listener questions that have come in. And this question was submitted by Sarah
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNLPQRSTUV, pick one. I cannot for the life of me figure out why she left out WXYZ.
She only offered me the choices between A and V. Anyway, why is davening on Rosh Hashanah so long?
Can't we crown Hashem as our King quickly and without Chazonas? Well, I'll answer the last part
first. Yes, you don't need Chazonas. There was a time when people found Chazonas very meaningful
enjoyable. My father used to sing in the choir with the great Chazonas. He would play Chazonas records
for us. He thought it was great. I heard a theory years ago that since Jews weren't allowed to be
in the opera, they developed their own form of opera and Chazonas. But there are people who
definitely enjoy it. I don't. I grew up in a shul with a Chazonas. We only went Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.
And he'd be up there going,
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
And I would be chewing on my own arm trying to cut it off
from the pain.
It was, it doesn't speak to me.
Some people it does. I think it's great.
I know people to this day learn Chazonas.
Yeah?
And they enjoy it.
I don't.
So I look for a davening where there's a tzliyacht tzibor with a pleasant voice and a lot of singing.
And yet the davening is long.
To be fair, if you would like to convert to becoming a Sephardi, theirs is much shorter.
They have a much shorter Rosh Hashanah davening.
They don't have a lot of the Piyotim that we have.
Yeah?
And not only that, and they blow the Tikiya Shoefer during Chazor HaShashatz.
They blow it during the Shtila Shmona Esrei.
When you say Shmona Esrei, they suddenly pull out the Shoefer and start blowing the Tikiya.
So you get it over with even faster.
Yeah?
So, why does it take so long?
There's two answers to that question.
One is that people tend to take a very long time for the Shmona Esreis on Rosh Hashanah because, as we know,
utshuva, uttfilah, utstokam, avir, nisroh, gizera.
And so, therefore, tefillah is very important.
And they put a lot into it.
I have gone to Minyanim where they have 40 minutes for people to say the Shmona Esrei.
I take longer to say the Amidas during Rosh Hashanah.
I don't spend that much time.
But it is long.
I grant you that.
There are a lot of piyutim.
Why?
Because since we call this day Ayim Vanoira, this is such a powerful day, we treat the concept of din very lightly.
If you've ever watched them coronate the King of England, it takes a nice long time.
There's a lot involved over there.
There's a lot of pomp and ceremony.
We're making God the King of the world.
Yeah, it takes a little time.
But more than that, there are people who leave out all of the harachamons at the end of benching.
They say, oh, you don't have to say it.
That's true.
But the end of benching is an auspicious time when you have the opportunity to ask HaKadosh Baruch Hu for things.
And you're blowing that opportunity.
Rosh Hashanah HaKadosh Baruch Hu is deciding everything that's going to happen to you for this coming year.
So, yeah, we throw in some extra piyutim where we praise God for his greatness and for what he does.
We compare ourselves to the angels.
All these different beautiful piyutim between me and you.
If you don't like them, leave them out.
That's what I say.
You can go to the Sephardim.
They leave out a lot of those piyutim.
But a lot of them, I enjoy very much.
I get a chizik from them.
I find it very uplifting.
I do.
I enjoy it.
I would be upset if they left it out.
Yeah?
I love it.
I get tremendous chizik from it.
So, you want to get over with quickly?
Okay.
I'm guessing from the fact that your name is Sarah, that you are of the female persuasion.
In which case, you're not mechuyah to go to shul.
You have to hear the kiyot shofar.
You don't have to daven.
So, you say, why does the daven take so long?
It doesn't have to.
You know?
Daven, whatever you want at home.
Go and get to the kiyot.
And you don't even have to go to shul for that.
Sometimes they have women to kiyot someplace.
And you don't have to participate.
But, being now almost 67 years old, I can tell you that over the years, I've come to enjoy the Rosh Hashanah Yim Kippur davening more and more.
Yes, when you're a kid and you don't know what's going on and you don't understand it, it's very boring.
That's why I always tell people, before Shul Yim Kippur, sit down with your maqser.
Go through it.
Make sure you know what's happening, when it's happening, how it's happening.
You know?
Look up things that you know it's happening.
So, you walk in there prepared.
You know?
Don't just open up the book and, like, look around and say, well, what are they doing now?
You know?
There's a very simple Seder to Rosh Hashanah Yim Kippur.
And the more that you invest in it, the more you will get out of it.
But, by all means, if it bothers you and you don't want to do it, don't.
This is David Orlovsky.
I'm just reminding you we need sponsors.
You can go to my website, RabbiOrlovsky.com, and sponsor an episode or a Parsha in 5 or these new question and answer segments.
Thank you very much.
This is David Orlovsky.
