[Why is Chanukah food so unhealthy?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/chanukah-food)

Hi, this is David Orlovsky with a little thought about Hanukkah coming up.
Somebody wrote me and they said,
How come we eat so many unhealthy foods on Hanukkah?
It's true.
If you live in America, you eat latkes, which is basically potato fried in oil.
If you live in Eretzver, you eat sufganiyot, which they call jelly donuts.
I know for a fact that's not true.
I lived in America. I know what a jelly donut looks like.
Sufganiyot are old challah rolls that are fried with enough oil so that if you put a wick in it,
you could recreate the Hanukkah miracle with a little jelly in it.
And it is incredibly unhealthy.
Parenthetically, I had a nutritionist once that said to me,
If you have to eat a Hanukkah food, go for the latkes.
It's healthier than the sufganiyot.
So I pass on that little tidbit for you.
I said, Why do we eat all these unhealthy foods?
So I said, Well, they're foods cooked in oil.
Well, then why do we eat foods cooked in oil if they're not unhealthy?
He says, Because, you know, the Greeks worshipped their bodies.
They had these beautiful physiques.
We want to show we're not like the Greeks.
We're going to be fat Jews with diabetes.
That's not the real reason.
The real reason is because Hanukkah is all about oil.
Oil is a fascinating liquid because it's the only liquid that doubles as a fuel.
You can eat it or you can light it.
And it becomes the source of light.
And the miracle took place with the oil.
Why?
Because oil is very special.
Because oil doesn't mix.
I remember seeing this in The Joy of Cooking maybe 40 years ago, maybe more.
The correct way to make a salad.
Tear the greens.
Do not cut them.
Tear them into little pieces.
Tear them into little pieces.
And then add the oil.
And coat it.
And then mix up all the other salad ingredients in a cruet.
Shake it up and pour it on top.
Because if you add the oil to the cruet, it will separate.
Because oil doesn't mix.
And that's why every now and then you'll look at like commercial salad dressings.
And you'll see an ingredient there called xanthium gum.
Well, I don't know what it is, but somehow it's supposed to make the oil stick together with everything else.
But oil separates.
Because the story of Hanukkah was the Greeks were trying to spread Hellenism all around the world.
And we said, just leave us alone.
That's all we asked.
Leave us alone.
And the Greeks said, no.
We're going to make you be like us.
And we fought them for the right to be left alone.
To be a people alone.
Today it's very easy because everybody hates us.
I mean, everybody always hated us.
But at least they made a pretense.
Because Esau comes at us with his army of 400 men.
And when he sees that won't destroy us, he hugs us and kisses us.
Which is even more destructive.
And in the Hanukkah story, we said, just leave us alone.
And so, today everyone hates us.
It's much easier.
Nobody wants us.
They don't want us in their international competitions, in their international organizations.
No one wants anything to be with us.
So, it gives us an opportunity on Hanukkah for us to be the Am HaNivcha.
To be like the oil that floats to the top of every other liquid.
So, let's join together in becoming special this Hanukkah.
Everyone should have a Lichtachen Hanukkah.
Lichtachen.
A light Hanukkah.
The Rambam says, there's no mitzvah of Simcha.
So, you don't say, you should have a happy Hanukkah.
You should have a, you know, a Hanukkah Sameach.
It's a Lichtek.
It should be a light Hanukkah.
It should be filled with light.
Okay.
Till next time, this is David Olavsky.
Thank you.










Thank you.

Thank you.


Thank you.


Thank you.


Thank you.


Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.


Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.
