[Why Do Our Kids Have to Learn About Oxen and Pitchers?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/oxen)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with the question and answer short series.
So Anonymous says, you often mentioned, specifically in your YB Jewish year,
that at some point kids will ask, Rebbe, why do I have to learn this?
I don't own an ox and I'm not planning on buying one.
I don't run through the public property with pitchers.
And then you move on to saying that Yiddishkeit has to be relevant.
But I've never heard you give the answer to that.
Why do we have to learn about oxen, pitcher running, marriage with an indeterminately valued piece of silk,
gittin catching fire while floating from a roof and so on?
What is the relevance? How do we explain this to our children?
So it's an excellent question. Obviously, that's why I use it.
And it is one of my problems that I sometimes make fun of something and I don't go back and give it meaning.
For example, we did a short where someone said to me,
in your YB Jewish, you destroyed Nisanatoga for me.
Could you please bring it back? Right?
That's true. I use something sometimes for a laugh line and I don't go back and fill it in.
So there's three answers to this question.
I'll tell you the one that I like.
The first answer is, learning Gemara sharpens your mind.
It doesn't matter what the topic is or how it works, etc.
It just automatically sharpens your mind.
Okay, that's true.
But I don't think that's a good enough answer because so does doing crossword puzzles.
I know that because in the New York Times, crossword puzzles, it says approved by the AARP.
So apparently doing crossword puzzles will help to keep your mind sharp.
So I don't like that particular answer.
The other answer is, that I've heard, is that, well, you never know which sugya is going to have bearing on practical halacha.
So you need to know all of the different sugyas in order to be able to come up with understanding.
The answer that kids give me when I say that is, well, I tell you the truth, I'm not planning on becoming a Paisic.
So if I have any difficult questions, instead of me having to sit here and learn it with all of them before shim,
why don't I just go and ask a rabbi or a Paisic and have them answer it for me?
Why do I have to know it?
So that's a problematic answer.
So the correct, I'm going to tell you the correct answer, and then I'm going to tell you what you tell a kid.
Yeah?
Where they may not appreciate it.
The reason we learn Gemara is because everything we're learning is relevant.
You just have to figure it out.
I told this story before where Moshe Shapiro said to us,
anything that you learn has to turn into doing.
And he quoted the second Paisic in the Torah.
And he looked at us and said, what is the La'asais of that?
What am I supposed to do based on that Paisic?
And he gave the answer that the Chazals say,
The world was not created to be nothing.
So therefore, it means that everything you're learning is there to teach me something.
So you, eventually, the more that you learn,
they're all the building blocks that are going to tie together in a way that's going to explain something to you.
So when Rav Moshe explained where the Gemara and Babakama, which seems somewhat esoteric,
explained that there are three different types of Avais in a shore,
there's Shane, Regal, and Karen,
he explained how those three are three ways that we destroy in this world.
And they represent three different types of Averis.
And they represent Adam Chava and the Nachash.
And they're the root of all evil in this world.
And you think you're just learning a little Sugiyam Babakama about what happens,
whether an animal eats something or tramples something or gores somebody.
There's all this deeper meaning to it.
So that's the correct answer.
If there's a kid, then as much as possible,
we should struggle to make what we're learning meaningful to them.
Right?
So even though I don't have a ox,
right?
You say I'm walking down the street with an ox, you know,
I can very often substitute a car.
Yeah?
Sometimes I can substitute somebody walking a dog.
Even though I don't run through the street with pictures,
you could understand somebody coming back,
they just brought themselves a computer,
and somebody bangs into them, you know,
someone's got a two-by-four and swings it around and smashes my computer.
They could understand that.
So yeah, as much as possible,
we should try to make it relevant and meaningful.
There's a deeper problem.
And that is, if a kid is asking,
why am I learning that?
That means however you're teaching it,
forget about what the subject matter is,
isn't interesting.
Kids don't mind sitting there,
spending their time on a brain teaser,
if it's interesting.
It doesn't have to be something that's relevant to their lives.
If the actual learning becomes interesting,
and that's part of the challenge,
is when you learn with a kid,
you have to make sure that the learning is interesting.
Until next time,
this is David Olavsky.
Thank you.
Thank you.
