[If We Can’t Change Them, What Can We Change?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-can-we-change)

Hi, this is David Olomsky with our question and answer shorts.
Yehuda Kravitz writes,
Thank you for clarifying the Haredi point of view on draft laws
and the anti-religious crusade of Israel's political left.
In the spirit of the Briska Rove's observation regarding Seyfayona,
which you have often quoted,
since we can't change them,
what should we be working on within our own communities
in response to the current situation?
Excellent question.
For those who are not familiar with this Briska Rove,
which I have quoted many times,
as somebody was coming over to the Briska Rove
and complaining about the Chilonim
and complaining about the Tzioinim,
he says, why are you talking about them?
They're not relevant to this story.
There's a boatload of idol worshippers
and there's a storm that's going to sink the boat.
And Yonah Hanavi says,
nah, none of this is because of you, it's only because of me.
I'm the, the Jewish people are the ones who decide everything here.
Throw me in the water and the storm will stop.
Even though they're still idol worshippers and they're still evil,
but God's not concerned to destroy you.
He's coming after me.
And they throw him in the water and sure enough, the storm stops.
So the Briska Rove says,
you see that when there's problems happening,
we look at ourselves, at the firm community,
not outside of it to anybody else.
So, therefore, the Atzeres HaTefilah,
as I explained, was for us.
It was to us to daven to Geroch Baruch Hu.
It wasn't a protest.
It wasn't a rally.
It wasn't a political speech.
It was just for us to daven to Hashem,
which means that the obligation is on us.
So I want to share with you an idea I heard from Rabbi Mordechai Pitam.
He follows the preisgim that say,
you're supposed to say tochtun on Yom HaTzmoot.
Some people do, some people don't.
He says he follows those preisgim.
So Yom HaTzmoot, he was in shul,
and his minion was about to say tochtun,
and he said,
if this is such an emotional issue,
I'm going to make more of an effort to understand
what tochtun is all about and what I'm saying,
especially on a day when it's controversial for me to say it.
I was deeply moved by that idea.
If we're saying that we're exempt from military service
because we're learning Torah,
then what we need to be mechazik is our lima to Torah.
We have to be more serious about our learning.
And we have to put in the time and the effort,
and they are melis,
to make sure that our Torah learning is what it's supposed to be,
and on the level it's supposed to be.
That's what we can do for ourselves.
I don't care if anybody's impressed by it.
We're not doing it to impress anybody else.
It's for ourselves.
We're not going to impress these people.
People hate Haredim.
They've always hated Haredim.
It doesn't matter what Haredim do.
It was this viral video of some Hasidic guy on a train,
and some woman's yelling at him and says,
you draft dodger.
He says, I'm a lieutenant in the IDF.
And he says, yeah, well, you're just sitting there.
You don't have a job.
He goes, I'm the CEO of a high-tech company.
So then she says, well, you're dressing black and white.
He goes, what's in your business how I dress?
I have to dress the way you want me to, too?
And afterwards she was interviewed by the press,
and she doubled down.
Yeah, Haredim.
She didn't care that everything she said was a lie.
People just hate Haredim,
because it's Gemarim Psachim,
that says,
as more than Goyim hate Jews,
Amaratzim hate B'nai Torah.
You know?
So the hatred of us is visceral.
It's bone deep.
It's built in.
Like Rabbi Akiva says,
when I was in Amar Aretz,
I would say,
show me a Tamal Chacham
so I could bite him like a donkey.
They said, Rabbi, you mean bite him like a dog?
He says, no, no, no.
A donkey breaks bones.
That's the hatred that exists.
So I'm not saying do it for them.
Actually, every time on the end,
people say, do this,
so people will look at Haredim differently.
It's a waste of time.
They hate us,
and they'll always hate us.
There's nothing you can do about it.
You know?
It's a waste of time.
But it's for us.
You're right.
It's for us.
We have to be mechazek,
our limit of Torah,
for ourselves,
because we're fighting for the right
to learn Torah,
and we should take our Torah learning
more seriously.
That's it.
Until next time,
I'm David Olavsky
with Question and Answer Shorts.
