[To Smash Or Not To Smash?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/cake-smash)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our new feature, Question and Answer Shorts.
Anonymous asked the question that I'm going to get into trouble for.
I know it already.
As somebody once said in one of my shiru, he goes,
I feel like sometimes you pause to think whether or not this is appropriate to say,
and regardless, you say it anyway, so I don't even know why you pause.
So I know I'm going to get into trouble for this, but I don't care.
Anonymous asks,
I want to get the Rav's thoughts on a popular trend currently in vogue in from circles
known as the Cake Smash Photo Shoot.
This involves hiring a professional photographer to cap images of a child
during their first birthday celebration,
in which the child is presented with a professionally baked and decorated cake.
Photos are taken as the child demolishes the cake,
creating a mess in the studio and on themselves,
and possibly consuming parts of the cakes.
I'm interested in hearing the Rabbi's halachian hashkafic perspective on this practice.
I mentioned that it's going to get me into trouble because some of my own children
do this with their children.
Yeah,
I am not in favor of this.
Because there's an isa di arase called bal tashchis.
And to take a cake and ruin it,
first of all,
I don't know what the hetar is to waste a cake like that and to waste food,
and to be mavaza food.
Second of all,
what are you teaching a kid?
You know,
you want to try to teach a kid
to eat properly,
to respect food.
There was a Yiddish writer by the name of Isaac Bashevasinghe.
He was not from,
but his father was a Rav in Warsaw.
And the most interesting book that he ever wrote was called In My Father's Court,
where he just tells stories from his father,
what his father did as a Rav.
Anyway,
they come to him and didn't tell you what happened.
There were these two families that they were getting married,
and they got into some kind of fight,
and somebody sent something to one of them,
you know,
and there was an insult,
whatever it was.
So they baked a hamantashen,
and they put excrement inside of it,
and sent it to them.
This was over the top.
And they went to the Rav,
and they were with the two families,
and they wanted to break off the shidduch,
and they wanted to this,
and this was the case.
And he says,
And my father looked to them and said,
Do you know what food is?
Did you ever see people go hungry?
And he described what it takes to make a piece of bread,
and how you have to plow the field,
and plant the seed,
and harvest it,
and thresh it,
and winnow,
and grind it till you have it,
and then bake the bread.
He says,
And you finally have a piece of bread,
which has kudusha to it.
You can't leave it lying on the floor.
You can't be mavazet.
And you do this to a piece of bread?
He says,
The two families were just crying at that point.
What's happened to us
that we have such disrespect for food?
The Gemara says,
If you respect food,
bread,
you won't come to Aeneas.
And the Gemara tells a story
that the Malach
was supposed to put a gezeria of Aeneas on this guy,
but he was always very careful
to not let any of his crumbs get destroyed,
or fall down on the ground.
He took care of everything.
So he saw one day
he was going like on a picnic.
He says,
Ah, now I'll get him.
And he was hovering over this guy.
And after he finished,
he walked all around the area
picking up every bread crumb.
He comes back to Kosh Baruch and says,
I can't touch this guy.
So when we show disrespect for food,
from a Chinuchhi point of view,
it's not good.
And certainly from a religious point of view,
it's not good.
So, yeah,
I'm coming out on the negative side of this.
This is David Olavsky
with Question and Answer Shorts.
Thanks.
