[Why Does G-d Want Our Cows?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/animal-sacrifices)

This is David Olofsky with our question and answer series.
We're in a very short period of time.
I try to give an answer.
And this one was submitted by someone called Rabbi Sally.
I don't really think it's Rabbi Sally, but it could be.
And it would not surprise me.
We have people of all walks in life.
I've gotten letters from conservative rabbis and reform rabbis
and different people from different parts, maybe.
What is the purpose of animal sacrifice?
Why does God want our cows?
God doesn't want our cows.
He's got plenty of cows.
If he needs them, he can always make more.
The reason why we bring, and sacrifice is such a bad word,
an offering.
It's a gift.
A minchav is a gift.
We give that because we want to give something to HaKadosh Baruch Hu.
And ultimately, we want to give ourselves.
You remember the song that was so beautiful?
In my heart, I'm going to build a mishkan, a tabernacle.
Of a mishkan mizbeya chasim.
And in that mishkan, I'm going to put an altar.
And you know what I'll sacrifice?
My own life.
That's what we ultimately want to give.
Now, I could offer up a tomato, but most people don't feel like vegetables.
There are some people who look like vegetables.
But most people don't look like vegetables.
They don't feel like vegetables.
You don't see it as something that's like you.
But when you see an animal, you have an association with it.
There's this horrible thing that somebody told me about that they ask girls in Shiduchim,
What kind of an animal do you see yourself as?
What a terrible thing to ask.
Bas Yisrael, compare yourself to an animal.
Chas Vashel.
But the idea that we see ourselves, our nefesh bahamas,
we see ourselves in that animalistic aspect.
When we shech that, we see ourselves as being shechted.
When we throw that dam, we see our dam as being shechted.
It's as if we're offering up ourselves.
And that's why when Hashem told Avraham to bring his son Yitzchak as an offering,
he didn't mean to actually kill him.
He didn't mean to just bring him up as an offering.
But then he shechted a goat.
And as the Chazal say, everything he did, he had in mind as if this was his son.
I'm shechting my son.
I'm catching the blood.
I'm throwing it.
I'm burning it.
Everything that I did to this ram, I look at it as if I was doing it to my son.
When a person brings a kurban, ideally, they're supposed to have that feeling that I'm offering it up.
When, as Yishayo says, the Kedush Baruch Hu says, I don't need your zvachim.
Zvachim are just slaughterings.
I don't need you to slaughter an animal for me.
If you're having an offering, you're having a kurban, which is l'karev, to come close,
that you feel that you've given your life to our Kedush Baruch Hu, that's something valuable.
But just to slaughter cows, I don't need that.
And so Yishayo said, we're going to lose the base of Mikdash.
God doesn't need an abattoir.
He doesn't need a schlocked house.
People just shechting animals for him.
He doesn't need that.
So, mir tzashem, when we appreciate what it means to offer ourselves to come close to our Kedush Baruch Hu,
we will be zoycheh, to be able to have a base of Mikdash.
In the meantime, we will build that Mishkan in our hearts.
As the Pesach says,
I will dwell inside of you, inside of your heart.
This is David Olavsky with the question and answer series.
