[What's The Difference Between Self-Care And Selfishness?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/self-care-vs-selfishness)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
Anonymous asks, what is the difference between self-care and selfishness?
Wow, this is so important. Let me start by telling you a story.
And like the best stories, it's annoying.
Something that I do well.
Listen to this story.
There was an almona with a bunch of little kids.
And Mamesh, they had no food.
When I say no food, I didn't mean like when a kid comes home today and opens up the refrigerator and it's full and it says, there's nothing to eat.
I mean, no food.
And someone said, look, I feel bad for you.
They gave her a hard-boiled egg.
And she goes into her room and shuts the door and she thinks, what am I going to do?
Cut it up and give everybody a little piece?
It's not going to help.
And she finally decides to eat the egg herself.
And the children are outside banging on the door saying, mommy, mommy, what are you doing?
And she said, I'm making you a mommy.
Those of us who fly are very familiar with this announcement.
When traveling with children, always make sure to put on your mask before helping others.
Because if I'm helping others put on their masks and I pass out, I'm not going to be any use to anybody.
First, put on your mask.
I mentioned this when Rabbi Nissel wrote his book on women's tefillah, Rigsheh Leiv.
So he asked Rabbi Scheinberg Zatzal, if a woman put the baby in for a nap.
And she's running around the whole day with this baby.
And she's mama's a shmata.
And the kid's going to sleep for about 45 minutes.
She can either daven or put up her feet, make herself a coffee, watch the Rabbi Olovsky show.
He didn't say that.
Which one should I do?
And he said, for sure, put up your feet.
Because when you spend the time taking care of yourself so you'll be more effective taking care of your children,
that's called Eisig B'mitzvah Potem in a Mitzvah.
That's a Mitzvah.
To take care of yourself and make sure you have what you need.
The Masil Shasharim discusses a level called Precious.
Which means separating yourself from things in this world that you don't need.
And he makes a distinction between good Precious and bad Precious.
Good Precious is taking away stuff that you don't need.
Bad Precious is taking away things you do need.
So if you don't give yourself enough sleep, and you don't eat, and you don't exercise.
Rabbi Olovsky said to me once, and it was very profound,
he says a doctor said to him,
you are too busy not to exercise.
And it's very profound.
Because obviously he says you have to exercise.
And he says I'm too busy.
And he says you're too busy not to exercise.
Because if you don't exercise, you're going to get sick, you're going to collapse,
and you're going to miss a lot more time.
If you don't take your car into the shop to be serviced,
so you're going to go a very long time until your car collapses,
it's something you could have done by taking care.
The same thing is true about your mental and spiritual and physical health.
I always say when I talk to an ashe group,
it's always so special because I know how hard it is for mothers to get out of their house and come to a shir.
But they need the chizik to keep going.
Selfishness is where I care about myself and not about you.
Selfishness is not that I'm doing what I need.
It's I don't care about other people.
Self-care is the exact opposite.
I'm taking care of myself.
I'm putting on my mask first to make sure I can help other people with their masks.
Selfishness is I put on my mask and I sit down and I don't care if you choke to death.
That's selfishness.
This has been David Orlovsky with our question and answer series.
Rabbi Orlovsky, Rabbi Orlovsky.
Yes?
Is the Orlovsky Pesach program still happening?
Of course.
My Pesach plans fell through.
Do you happen to have any available rooms?
Well, the truth is we were totally sold out by Tu B'Shvat.
But because of the current situation,
the skies over Israel are closed and there's a lot of people who had to cancel
who were going to come in from outside of Erichsung.
So yes, we do have some rooms available.
Is the hotel equipped with the proper safety requirements?
This is very safe.
We have bomb shelters.
We have secure areas.
I would not take people to a place that I thought was dangerous.
Rabbi Orlovsky, is there a secret we're going to be at a daycap?
Yes, we've got the counselors lined up.
They're very excited to run it.
I hope that you'll have a wonderful time in our Pesach.
How about bouncy castles?
Bouncy castles?
We're going to have bouncy castles the whole Pesach.
We're going to have animal shows.
We're going to have magic shows.
We're going to have all kinds of fun things.
Okay, I'll make sure to tell my parents.
That's great.
So tell your parents to click on the link below.
