[How Can Men Be Commanded to Have Kids If Women Aren’t?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/how-can-men-be-commanded-to-have-kids-if-women-arent)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
Ora Khan writes,
If a woman is not obligated to have children because you can't obligate someone to put herself in sakana,
then a man can be obligated to put someone else in sakana?
So, anybody has the right to put themselves into a sakana.
You can't obligate someone to go into a sakana,
but anyone can choose to go into a sakana.
So, therefore, there are people who go to work in dangerous professions.
There are people who go to work in dangerous places.
There are people who go out to war, which is dangerous.
You're allowed to put yourself in a dangerous situation, but you can't obligate somebody.
Therefore, if a woman does not want to have children because it's dangerous,
no problem.
There are men out there who can't have children.
Just, you can go, there are certain shatchanim who specialize in this,
and say, listen, I'm afraid to get them pregnant because I know it's a danger.
I don't want to have any children, but I want to get married.
Do you know anyone who can't have children?
Who's sterile or whatever the case may be?
I'll marry them.
You don't have to.
But a woman who volunteers to put herself into this situation, why?
Because she wants to.
Because Chana was davening and davening to become pregnant and have a child.
Daven for me and I'll daven for you.
There are people who want to have.
And in fact, one of the reasons that women don't have a mitzvah to have children is because
they're smart enough on their own to figure out that it's a good thing to do.
Men have to be commanded.
Women don't.
So, I can't obligate a woman to, but if a nice woman wants to help me do my mitzvah,
and says, as it happens, I also want to have children.
I know you want to have children.
Let's get married.
And we'll both be happy.
And the husband says, but you're going to be putting yourself in a dangerous situation.
And she says, I'm willing to take that risk.
Because I drive in Israel.
And every time I get behind the wheel, I'm taking my life in my hands.
So, if I can risk that, I can risk getting pregnant.
This is David Olavsky with the Question and Answer Series.
