[Why Did Hashem Design the Body This Way?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/why-did-hashem-design-the-body-this-way)

This is David Olavsky with our question and answer series, where in a few minutes we try to give answers to complicated questions.
In a recent question and answer, you were answering why our bodies are in the form that they are.
You mentioned in passing that the same organ that's used for urination is also used for procreation.
And you didn't explain why that is. That's true.
If you can clarify, or at least give me a minor mochum where I can understand this, as this is something we have been trying to understand.
And I have an idea, but I would like to hear your explanation. Thank you very much for all your Torah.
I will share with you the explanation that I heard from Rabbi Shepir.
Because, as you know, in Yom Kippur, you say,
HaKadosh Baruch Hu searches the heart, the stomach, and the kidneys.
Searches the kidneys.
So it says, the kidneys are the source of etza, of advice.
Now, what is there about the kidneys that give advice?
And he said like this.
There are two words that are very similar in Hebrew.
One is Shoteh, which is to drink.
And one is Sheten, which is urine.
Because what you drink, basically, comes out as urine.
Yeah?
And both of them, he said, comes from the same word Shos, as in Shos Libo, which means to choose.
And he points out that Sh'tia represents desire.
What does that mean?
That means you can only eat so much.
You reach a point where if you keep eating, it's not called eating anymore.
It's called Achilles Gassa.
That doesn't count.
You cannot eat as much as you want.
You can only eat a certain amount.
In Rome, they used to have vomitoriums, I think they were called, where people, when they were soothed until they were full,
and they would go in the back room and throw up so they could eat more.
Because you just can't keep eating.
Drinking?
You can drink as much as you want.
You can sit there with a lot of water and drink it.
I have to drink a lot.
When the doctor told me I can't fast on any of the fast days, I said, why?
He said, because you're a very sick man.
And he wouldn't say anymore.
And in Israel, there's doctors and there's professors.
Professors don't have to answer any questions.
So I went to a doctor.
And he said, because since you're a heart operation, you don't have arteries.
You only have veins.
They're smaller.
And if you don't drink, then your blood will get thick and put pressure on them.
And if one of them should pop off and start spritzing on inside of your body, that's going to be worse than you drinking.
So, I made a Kalvachon meh.
If I have to drink on Yom Kippur, the Mestama, I have to, I mean, Shirim.
I drink Shirim.
But then certainly during the week, I have to drink.
And I always keep a big pitcher and big cups.
And I'm constantly drinking.
Yeah.
So you can drink as much as you want.
You'll just keep going to the bathroom.
Because the Sh'tia will turn into Sh'tet.
But what you drink becomes Sh'tet.
Just becomes urine.
And yet, there's a very weird thing.
He said this to me.
And Rabbi Tatz, who was in the Shire at that time, who is a doctor, says,
Yes, it's true.
Science can't explain it.
I had a biology book at home.
I looked it up.
And you can see it in biology.
Makes no sense.
When your body forms the Zera,
It should go straight into the Ava that you use to be able to procreate.
But it doesn't.
It goes into a tube.
And it goes all the way around the kidneys.
And then goes there.
And science cannot explain why they do it.
They have a theory.
Maybe it's there to warm it.
Maybe this.
But it doesn't make any sense.
It makes more sense for it to go directly in where it's just been made.
Why would it go around the kidneys?
So, Moshe explained.
Because that's why the kidneys are Eitzah.
Because the same organ that produces Sheten, which is nothing.
And in fact, in Halacha, Sheten has a din of Mayim.
The same organ that produces Sheten, which is nothing.
It's basically what went in and went out.
Also creates Zera that will create children.
And Dore, Doros, and Klai Yisrael.
And that's why it's the same organ specifically.
Because HaKadosh Baruch Hu wants us to know Shos Libo.
Drinking is your desire.
And whatever you want in this world, you can either produce something that's nothing.
Or something that will last forever.
He brought a marshal to explain this.
He says, you have an egg.
And you crack it open.
You scramble it up.
Make it as tasty as you want.
Add a little salt.
Add a little pepper.
You know.
And you eat it.
That's it.
It's gone.
Or you can take that egg and put it under a chicken.
And hatch another chicken.
And that chicken will lay eggs.
And you can put those under chickens and get more.
Before you know it, you have thousands of chickens that you got from that egg.
Or you can just eat it.
And so therefore, the same organ is there to tell us that we could do something in this world
that produces something that lasts forever.
Zera.
Or something that is nothing.
Shetan.
This is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
I'll see you next time.
