[How Does One Build Self Esteem?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/how-does-one-build-self-esteem)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
We're in a few moments, a few minutes, sometimes an hour or two.
I answer short questions that I can for our listeners.
And our good friend, my personal friend, friend of the show, Yoel Shmel writes,
How does one fix or build self-esteem according to the Torah?
This is so, so important.
Yeah, there is a Gemara in a few different places that says the same thing.
A person is mechuyiv, obligated to say,
Bishvili nivra haolam.
The entire universe was created for me.
I am the most important person in the universe.
Now, come on.
When I was a kid, I was, you know, already bar mitzvah.
And in America, there was Rav Moshe Feinstein, Rav Yaakov Kamenetzky,
Rav Rudiman, Rav Hutna, Rav Gifter, Rav Leibowitz,
Fimu Chavetz Chaim, you know, all of these Gadolet Torah,
I'm the most important person?
Yes.
Because of a very deep philosophical work
that was written by Dr. Seuss called Horus Hears a Who.
And there's this little place called Whoville.
And only Horus can hear it because he has such good hearing.
And he tells them, you have to make enough noise so everyone hears you
or they're going to destroy Who Town because it's on a little dandelion.
They're going to throw it in the fire.
And everyone's making noise and they can't hear him.
And there's one last little Who.
And his voice, when he finally adds it in,
gets loud enough that they can hear it.
And so you may not be the loudest guy,
but your voice is the deciding voice.
It's, I see people, they say like, you know,
ah, what does it make?
Why should I bother voting in an election?
You know, I live in New York, you know, it's Democrat.
They're always going to go Democrat.
Yeah.
And then you read the next morning, you know,
he lost by one vote.
Listen, sometimes it comes down to one vote.
The Declaration of Independence was finally ratified
because even though Pennsylvania,
one of the main people there, didn't want to vote for it,
there was a split.
Benjamin Franklin wanted it.
The other fellow did not.
And this third person, he cast the deciding vote.
And he said, if I vote for it,
it doesn't make a difference, right?
Because I've joined with everybody.
If I vote against it,
I'll be the person who stopped the United States of America
from coming into existence.
One vote.
So, Bishpili Nivra Ola means that
I am the single most important person in creation,
and therefore what I do makes a difference.
And the Yetzirah does not want to get you to sin.
He's very busy.
He's the busiest Malach around.
The Gemara says he's the Yetzirah,
he's the Satan,
he's the Malach HaMaves,
he's busy.
So what he wants to do is make you believe
that you don't make a difference.
If I don't make a difference,
who cares if I make a bracha?
Who cares if I daven?
You think my tefillah makes somebody healthy?
Yeah.
Your tefillah heals the sick
and gives children to the childless
and gives parnosah to poor people,
and stops those bullets and those bombs and those missiles.
Those are your tefillahs.
But the Yetzirah wants to make you feel like you don't matter.
And so the secret is understanding.
Selim Elohim.
Tell you a story.
I was teaching in Discovery in the summer,
so they wanted to round up support.
So they sent the speakers into town at night
to give lectures to interest people.
And they'd have us speak about men-women relationships,
things that hopefully would attract that kind of a crowd
who was drunk in Kikertzion at night.
So in the middle of this year,
some guy says,
who did Cain marry?
Now this is an interesting concept
because if you look just in the text,
there was only Adam and Eve and Cain,
and so you might think that Cain slept with his mother.
That's how some people want to present it.
Who did Cain marry?
It says that he was born with a twin sister.
He married a sister.
It says, isn't that incest?
And I said, yes.
And I said, for the record, definitely incest.
Sleep with your sister.
He goes, now why did God choose to populate the world through incest?
I said, because his other choice was to make 25 men and 25 women.
And then every one of them could say,
if I died, it makes no difference.
He would rather populate the world through incest and create one person
so every person can say, that's me.
I am the Adam HaKadmine.
Bishvi Li Nivra HaOlam.
I'm the most important person in creation.
The entire universe was worth being created for me.
That is how you build self-esteem.
This is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
