[When Is Chutzpah A Good Thing?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/when-is-chutzpah-a-good-thing)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series, where in a few minutes
we try to give you an answer to a question that might be itching you.
I'm itching to get an answer.
My brother at his 25th wedding anniversary quoted from Esha's Chayel and said, you know,
Esha's Chayel, the good wife, more precious than pearls.
He says, how do you get a pearl?
It says a little piece of sand gets into a oyster and it irritates it and it releases
the lucra to cover it up because it's irritating them.
So sometimes the things that irritate you help to create great pearls.
I clean them in Esha's Chayel.
So when I got up to speak, I said I didn't follow his whole speech, but basically his wife irritated
him until he agreed to buy her pearls.
So that's not exactly how it works.
But anyway.
When is Chutzpah a good thing?
That's real rough.
Ki ein ane aze ponimu k'sheh oref.
L'aymu lefanecha Hashem alakeinu ve lakeh avaseinu.
Sadikim anachtu v'al chatonu ava anachnu v'avaseinu chatonu.
We are not so brazen.
One of the things we clap alakeh ava anachnu v'avaseinu.
Chutzpah.

Chutzpah is a terrible thing.
Pekai ava says,
Pekai ava says,













Pekai ava says,
And it's a very rough thing, chutzpah.
So where, if ever, is there a role for chutzpah?
So, there was this fellow who wanted to get into Rav Moshe Shapiro's Tuesday shir, but it was really only for married people.
And he was single.
But he couldn't go to the Thursday shir, which was open to the general public.
He wanted to get to one of Rav Moshe's shir.
And he says,
What can I do?
It's only for married people.
He says,
But I have a special skula to become a ben toira.
So Rav Moshe says,
Yeah.
He says,
It says,
Eina ba'ishin lomeid.
Somebody who gets embarrassed is never going to be able to learn, because he's not going to ask his questions.
But it says in the Gemara,
that there are three things that Jews are inherently born with.
Rachmonim, b'ishonim, and gomle chasodim.
They're merciful, they're charitable, and they get embarrassed.
They get shame.
They call Jewish guilt.
So every Jew is at a disadvantage,
because since he's a baishin, and a baishin lomeid, he has to overcome that.
But when I was born, my father wasn't Jewish.
So I'm not such a baishin.
So I'll be able to learn Torah.
So Moeshe looks to him and says in English,
You're okay.
And he let him in.
So,
Torah is called Oz.
Hashem Oz la'moyitein.
Oz is azos.
When it comes to learning Torah,
then you have to be mechutz.
I mean, obviously, you have to ask him respect.
But you have to question, and you have to push,
and you can't let yourself be intimidated.
Rabbi Brown told me that the way he developed the Kesha with Rav Moshu Shapiro
is that he heard that Rav Moshu Shapiro knows all about Hashkafa.
So he went to him and asked him a number of questions,
and Rav Moshu basically, you know, dismissed him and his questions.
And he said to him,
You can call me any name you want.
You can do whatever you want to me,
but you're the only one I know who can answer these questions.
And I'm going to stay here until you do.
And Rav Moshu smiled, and he answered the questions for him,
and he became a Talmud of his for decades.
You know, but you can't, you have to push yourself.
That's what you have to do.
I'll never forget, I was by Rav Moshu on Purim,
and one of these tatim, these, you know,
these yeshivas send around these kids to collect money
for their tat, Tomchei Torah, to be able to help students, you know.
And they come dancing in to Rav Moshu's house to ask for money,
and he says,
Grush I wouldn't give you.
He says,
This is not what Purim is for.
Purim is for matonaz lev yonam,
and not to collect for yeshivas.
And they fought with him, and they argued with him,
and they're fighting with him,
and I was dying.
I was dying, because I have a general principle that I live by,
and that is, don't argue with someone who can turn you into a frog.
You know what I mean?
I just, I picked that up in life.
Anyway, so eventually he pulls out 50 shackles and gives it to the guy.
And they go, and they leave.
I said to Rav Moshu, I said,
If that was Amerikayim,
they would never have the chutzpah to do that after you said what you said.
And he said,
If they were Amerikayim, I never would have done what I did.
But I know that Israelis have an azuz to them.
It's a chutzpah.
And Rabbi Oleg once said, of course,
because this whole country is a chutzpah.
We came here, and we built the country,
and we kicked out the British,
and we fought against all odds.
It makes Israelis mechutzif.
You know, it's an occupational hazard.
Rosh Kola once said to me,
you know,
what is a problem for Israelis
is the opposite problem for Americans.
Israelis are so mechutzif,
and so pushy,
and so nasty.
And Americans are like,
Can I stand here?
Am I right if I sit over here?
Is this a problem?
Can I come here?
And they're all afraid to say anything
to assert themselves.
And when it comes to Torah,
that's where it is.
And that's why in Pirkei Avos,
when it says,
Az K'Nama,
Az K'Nama,
Rebbe Udav and Tema,
Az K'Nama,
be brazen as a Nama,
right after it says,
Az Panam Legehenim.
So in Torah,
you have to be brazen,
but don't let that seep
into the other aspects of your life.
This is David Olavsky
with the Question and Answer series.
