[How Can You Love Parents Who Hurt You?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/how-can-you-love-parents-who-hurt-you)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series, where in a short period of time
we try to answer your questions. The Rav always talks about how his parents were somewhat rough
on him, Koyimolo, Yitzlach, etc. But at the same time, you speak very highly of them.
How do you balance this? Life is complicated, and people are complicated.
Sometimes you have a best friend and you get into a fight with them, and you're not talking to them,
and you tell everybody all the worst things about them, and you say this person is terrible,
and they're the worst person in the world, etc. And then at some point you make up,
and you're best friends again. And then you're like, well, he's my best friend. He says, why?
So what do you mean? He's so wonderful. He's so this. He's so that. But I thought you said he was this
and this and this and this. Nah. Now, what's the truth? The truth is, both are true. People are
complicated. If you want to focus on the bad of people, you can. If you want to focus on the good
of people, you can. It's up to you. So you can look at a person and see all their wonderful
qualities and all their terrific traits, or you can look at all the things that they did wrong.
And if you want to define somebody by all the things they did wrong, then that's who the person is.
And if you want to define them by all the things that they did right, then that's who they are.
And if you want to define them by all the things that they did wrong, then that's who they are.
And they're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
And they're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
And they're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
And they're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
And they're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
They're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
They're not going to define them. They're not going to define them.
But this one fellow got picked up. They arrested him for doing something that everybody did.
It's like when they took, they arrested somebody from Trump's institution for deducting some kind of expenses,
a business expense. And it's like everybody in business does that. It's ridiculous.
But they, if you want to go after somebody, you could.
So they decide to make an example of this guy.
So Reb Chaim asked to meet with the judge.
And the judge says, do you have anything to say that has bearing on this case?
And he says, yes. He says, you're familiar with the lore about diamond trading?
He says, no, I don't know anything about that.
But there's a Mishnah in Pirkei Avos that says,
Hevidan es kol odom l'kaf schus.
It should have just said, Hevidan odom l'kaf schus.
Judge a person favorably.
What does that mean? Kol odom.
All people.
He says, because the only way you can judge somebody is kol odom.
You have to judge the person in the context of who they are and not one action.
You could pull out any one action and use that to define somebody and it's not fair.
That's not who they are.
That's what today they call cancel culture.
You once said something, you sent a text, you did something,
and that's it, your life is over.
Unless you're on the left, then everything is forgiven.
But if you're on the right, forget about it.
It's the end of your life.
Yeah.
So, I want to tell you a little bit about this person so when you judge him,
you won't just judge him based on this one action,
but you'll judge us kol odom, the entire person.
And he told him all about the things he does in the community and the charity he gives
and all these other things which aren't taken into account when you're trying to judge somebody.
So, the things that I've pointed out that my parents did wrong are all true.
They're all true.
I don't say these things to Chas V'shalom, besmirch my parents.
Because I have only tremendous gratitude to my parents and everything that they've done for me.
I would not be alive if it wasn't for my parents.
Quite literally.
I remember when I was getting married, somebody said to me,
how many children are you going to have?
And I said, well, as much as the good Lord gives me.
He says, you can't do that.
You have to plan it.
I said, what's the right number?
Four.
And they brought a bunch of writers why four is the right amount.
I said, well, I have a little problem with that because I'm number five in my family.
And my brother Bruce, who's number six, feels even stronger about it than I do.
My father grew up in a firm home.
My grandfather was in Amaretz.
He didn't really know anything.
My father got no Jewish education.
And the family was starving during the Depression.
And he dropped out of school to go and support them.
And the only way he could do that was by working on Shabbos.
At least that's how he felt at the time.
And he helped to support his family.
And he met my mother.
And they got married with one purpose.
To make a Jewish home and bring up Jewish children.
Who would respect Judaism.
From the time I was little, my father used to say to me,
if you marry a shiksa, you're out of the will.
I said, okay, Dad.
I didn't know what a will was.
I didn't know what a shiksa was.
I didn't know anything he was saying.
But he wanted me to know that.
That was very important to him.
And he wanted to make sure we appreciated that.
And when the opportunity came to send his kids to yeshiva,
and he didn't have the money, he sacrificed.
I asked my mother, how did you afford this?
It was right after when Dad went bankrupt.
She said, so I didn't buy a new dress.
So we didn't go on vacation.
Your father didn't buy a new car.
We gave the money to the yeshiva instead.
To get our kids a Jewish education.
My father said to me once, at the end of his life,
he says, one of my greatest accomplishments
is I helped all of my children get a house.
I gave them money towards getting a house.
I wanted to see my children have a house.
Yeah?
And I, like many of my brothers,
are basically ingrates.
Because if I was my father,
and I had six kids,
and they said about me the stuff
that me and my brothers say about them,
I would have said, what am I, crazy?
I'm going to have these kids work day and night
to support them and take care of them,
and then all they do is turn around
and complain about me?
What do I need this for?
That's why many people today
have opted out of having children.
Because what do I need it for?
People say, well, you want someone to love you.
Buy a puppy.
I'll be very happy to see you.
And it's much less maintenance.
I don't know.
But you have children
because that's the mission we got
from my Kiddush Baruch Hu.
And my parents paid my tuition,
gave me food, gave me clothing.
Okay, so could he be incredibly annoying at times?
Sure.
There are those who might suggest,
so could I.
I know that's hard to believe.
But, you know, but so what?
If he did nothing other than bring me into this world,
I owe him a debt of gratitude that I can't.
Somebody saves your life.
Someone gives you the gift of life.
That's it.
And all these people turn around and say,
I'm so angry at my mother
because she wouldn't go to that, that, that, that, that, you know?
So no, yeah.
Am I traumatized a little bit from my parents?
Parenting techniques?
Sure.
But one of the worthless things that I do
is I daydream.
My picture, what happens if I go to sleep one night
and I wake up with all my memories
and I'm five years old?
Or 10 years old?
15?
I start living my life again.
But in almost every scenario,
I would have been nicer to my parents.
Because what was in it for them?
To raise us and support us
and to give to us and this.
And what did they get in return?
You know?
Criticism, aggravation.
And, you know,
so I'm tremendous.
I carcetone to my parents.
Did they do things that, you know,
that hurt me physically, mentally?
Yep.
They sure did.
But whatever doesn't kill you
makes you stronger.
Right?
So I'm the person I am today
because of all of the things
that I went through.
If I didn't go through those things,
you know, who knows?
I might be a big baby.
Complain about everything.
I am a big baby
and I do complain about everything.
But I'd be a bigger baby.
You know?
I always say,
because my parents gave me this message
all the time of like, you know,
Yerlo Yitzch,
which is one of the things you mentioned,
that's the thing that stops me the most
from becoming a Balgaiva.
You know?
Because people tell me a lot.
You know, we read the appreciation,
you know, comments at the end
and I get many, many emails
and meet people
and they say,
what you did change my life.
You saved my kid's life.
You did that next thing.
If I was able to process that,
I wouldn't be able to lift my head
off the pillow.
It would be so heavy.
I'd be so humongous
how unbelievable I am.
But they tell it to me
and I get this momentary thrill
and then I hear my parents saying,
eh, you're nothing.
It's mamasham atona.
It's a tremendous gift
because I know people in the field
who didn't get that kind of upbringing
and they're insufferable.
I won't mention any names,
but I know certain people
who are in the famous speaker club
who are just the most unbelievable Balgaiva.
And I find Balgaiva so incredibly entertaining
because you have so much fun at their expense,
you know.
But me,
eh,
it doesn't bother me.
So,
yeah,
life is complicated
and you can hold two thoughts
in your head at the same time.
And you can say,
you know,
my parents were good people.
They were good Jews.
My father became Shomashavu
at the end of his life.
My mother did too.
You know,
they raised children.
They have over a hundred great-grandchildren
who are all being raised in Torah and mitzvahs.
You know what a schus that is?
Because you can look in their family tree
in all directions
and there's like nobody left.
Either they didn't have kids
or they intermarried
or they disappeared.
And my parents,
through tremendous sacrifice,
raised a Jewish family, Jewish,
with proper values.
So,
I have nothing but
HaKar Asetov
and it hurts me
every year
when I clap
al-cheit,
al-zilzil,
hoyrim,
moyrim,
that we embarrassed our parents.
So,
were my parents perfect?
No.
No.
But compared to his dad,
he was a saint.
And that's what I tell my kids
when they complain about me.
I said,
you didn't know my dad.
But my dad
worked day and night
to provide for his kids
and to make sure
that they were taken care of.
And so,
for that,
I have nothing but
the greatest HaKar Asetov.
And that's how we have to look at it.
When we hate somebody,
it's because we focus
on the negative.
And when we love somebody,
it's because we focus
on the positive.
And some of my brothers,
sometimes,
they would say,
you know,
oh, David's out to lunch.
He doesn't remember dad.
I remember him perfectly well.
I remember all the things
that went wrong.
But I also remember
all the good that he did
and my mother did
and all the good things.
And that's what I choose
to focus on.
And that's how I choose
to remember them.
This has been
the question and answer series.
