[What Do You Say to Someone Who Is Dying?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-do-you-say-to-someone-who-is-dying)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series.
Hi, Rabbi Olavsky, and thanks for reading this.
My grandfather has a genetic condition that has him bedridden and emaciated.
He's across the sea in Israel, and we don't have the money to all go visit him.
So my father himself usually goes once a year.
He has the same inherited genetic condition, although it is not as bad.
Whenever he goes to see his father, I know it must be terrifying.
He looks at the image of what he thinks mirrors his future skinny limbs and dialysis,
and worst of all, feeding tubes.
He always comes home depressed and shaken.
He doesn't know what to tell his father to give him chizik.
When everything seems so hopeless, I don't know what to tell my father.
In general, what do you tell someone who is at death's doorstep that won't offend them or sound too cliché?
Thanks again.
Oh boy, it's a rough question, isn't it?
I remember I was in South Africa once, and I was going around speaking and meeting with people,
and they said, could you go and meet with this person?
He has pancreatic cancer.
As a rule, that's a death sentence.
It usually lasts about six months.
Alex Trebek lasted longer, but that was an exception.
Yeah.
That's because he didn't know the answer to the question, what is pancreatic cancer?
So, he was three months in, which means he basically had three months left to live.
And they told me, go and give him chizik.
And I went, and I told him, I said, listen, you know, God can do anything.
You look at your situation, and you say, listen, this is a death sentence.
It's not true.
I didn't know about Alex Trebek at the time, who lasted years with pancreatic cancer.
I said, but science is progressing all the time.
There's always opportunities.
You can never lose hope.
You have to.
And I gave him, you know, basically a Kodesh Baruch can do anything.
Three months later, he died.
But if I gave him a little more faith during that time, it gives him the strength to keep going.
Because in Judaism, every single day is precious.
Every day is precious.
Right?
I was a fellow who was put into prison for debt.
And the fellow who locked him up said, I'll give you off one day.
And he asked the Shiloh, what day should I take?
Yom Kippur, so I can go to shul.
Pesach, so I can be with my family.
What's the most important day?
And the answer he received was tomorrow.
Because every single day is the most important day of our life.
We wake up in the morning and we wash netil shodayim shel bokeh, what we call negel vasa.
Why?
One of the reasons is because you take a new kli and you put it into the mikveh.
We have to wash ourselves because today is a new day.
If Moshe Shapiro said, we make brachas in the morning, shaloha sanig goyi.
Every day I make that bracha that I'm not a non-Jew.
Why?
You thought I converted in my sleep?
No, because today is a brand new day.
Yesterday is a canceled check and tomorrow is a promissory note.
All you have is today.
Spend it.
That was from the Simcha, Art Raymond.
From the morning Simcha, afternoon Simcha.
I don't know.
We had two different shows.
Yeah.
Or yesterday is history and tomorrow is a mystery.
Today is a gift.
That's why it's called the present.
That's from Kung Fu Panda.
But the point is that every single day is precious.
But I'm sick.
My mother was sick.
Many years.
I used to call up.
I'd say, Mom, how are you doing?
Unfortunately, still alive.
I said, Mom, we need you.
That's okay.
She made it to 89 in terrible health.
People used to ask me, how's your mom doing?
I said, maintaining her usual level of low health.
But as long as you're alive?
The Medrash says that Paro had three advisors.
Yisrael, Bilaam, and Eov.
And Paro said, what should we do to the Jews?
And Yisrael said, be good to them.
And Bilaam said, enslave them.
And Eov said, nothing.
And so, Yisrael got that his descendants were able to sit in the Sanhedrin.
And Bilaam died by the sword.
And Eov had all the sufferings of Eov.
And you say to yourself, gee, what would I rather have?
A nice, clean death with a sword?
Or all the sufferings of Eov?
It seems like Eov got it worse.
And said, Rechayim's beloveds,
a life of the worst suffering is better than death.
Because being alive is the greatest gift of all.
And that's the Pasach.
Yasa yasreni ka.
God gave me all these yesurim sufferings.
But he didn't kill me.
I'm still alive.
And as long as you're alive, you can do mitzvahs.
And as long as you're alive, you can accomplish things.
Dead people do nothing.
So is it hard?
Hard to be enfeebled?
Is it hard to be sick?
Sure.
Can I guarantee you it's not going to happen to you?
No.
Life's a mystery.
We don't know what's going to happen.
Look at people who get married and then one of their spouses gets sick.
And they end up becoming a nurse for the rest of their lives.
Or for many years.
You know?
You think you're going to have a cute little baby like everybody else.
And it ends up you have a handicapped baby.
And you spend your time taking care of them.
Yeah.
But better life.
Better the gift of life.
Than anything at all.
And the chizik comes from the fact that science is making progress all the time.
There were things that were considered incurable.
There were things that were considered terrible diseases.
And we solved them.
We solved them.
So you never know where science is going to be in 20 years.
We're able to do operations on fetuses in the embryo.
And correct things.
We have gene therapy.
We have so many different things that we're able to do.
Now, Elon Musk is talking about putting chips in people's brains so they have a little computer there.
We can enhance people.
Who knows by that time what we'll be able to do.
So, never lose hope.
We have to know.
We put one foot in front of the other.
Life is a journey.
And a journey is one step at a time.
Mitzvah Hashem.
Everyone should have it before Shlema.
This is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
Thank you.
