[Can You Handle Being a Kollel Wife?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/can-you-handle-being-a-kollel-wife)

It's David Olavsky with our question and answer series, where in a few minutes we try to answer listeners' questions.
I'm going to combine two.
Question number one was, should I want to marry a learning boy?
Question number two is, why is it fair that women go to work nowadays?
Isn't that Adam's curse, not Chavez?
We already have a curse.
And the two of them are obviously related.
So let's combine the two.
Should I want to marry a learning boy?
That depends.
The answer I give to that question is the same answer I give, should I live in Eretzl?
And the answer is, only if you really want to.
Don't come here because, you know, see, you won't make it.
It's tough living in Eretzl.
It's harder.
Especially if you're coming from Chuzlar, you have to leave your family, you have to leave your culture.
It's a much harder lifestyle in that regard.
So if you're going to come to Eretzl, you have to really want to.
Same thing with a learning boy.
If you want to marry a boy who's in learning, all right, you have to be prepared to be a girl who's marrying a boy in learning.
You don't understand what I mean?
I'll tell you what I mean.
Girls don't often realize the significance.
There was a young lady I knew who had some protexia.
And she was going to get set up with the best boy in Israel.
And I was on her resume as a reference.
And the boy's rabbi calls me up and he says, listen, before you tell me about the girl, let me tell you about the boy.
Everybody is the best boy in the yeshiva.
But this guy really is.
Him and his chavrus are the two best guys.
They get to the base medjash at 7 o'clock in the morning and they leave at 11 o'clock at night.
They take a break to daven.
They take a break to eat their meals.
And then they go back.
They don't take a nap.
They don't rest.
They don't do anything.
So his friend got married three or four months ago to a girl who was like thrilled to marry a masmid.
And then she found out, although she may have wanted to marry a masmid, it's no fun being married to a masmid.
Because you never see him.
And here she is living on the yeshiva campus to a boy that she almost never sees.
And so my wife reached out to her, tried to help her out, you know, but it's very hard for her.
Ask the girl if this is what she really wants.
So I tell it over to the girl and she goes, well, I don't know if I can handle that.
I said, I don't know if I could handle that.
And she said, but shouldn't I want to handle that?
And I said, don't marry the boy that you think you should want to marry.
Marry the boy you do want to marry.
And if you're not ready to sacrifice.
I had a girl in seminary.
She says to me, I want to marry a boy in learning.
I said, can you support a boy in learning?
She says, no, I'm first going to go to school.
I don't have a job.
I said, are your parents in a position to support a boy in learning?
They said, no.
I said, so how are you going to support this husband who's just sitting and learning?
So she said to me, so you're saying if I don't have money, I can't marry a boy in learning?
And I said, no, you could if you're prepared to be poor.
Are you prepared to be poor?
She says, well, I said, you know, never buy yourself a shetel.
Just go to the shetel gamach and pick up a used shetel.
Are you okay with that?
I said, you know, save the can from the tomato sauce to boil up your egg for lunch.
Rabbi Arsha Rubenstein said when he was learning, you know, sometimes him and his wife for lunch would have shara bi tochon and chavaz lavavos.
Because they had no money for food.
He'd come home and learn with him.
That was lunch.
I said, are you prepared to be poor?
She says, well, I don't know.
I said, okay, your parents send you money now.
What do you do with it?
Do you go out to eat with your friends?
Do you get a facial?
Or are you squirreling it away to like pay the electric bill for you and your husband and learning?
So they knew the answer already.
They're not prepared to be poor.
So what do you marry a boy and learning for?
Well, what happens?
So there are these girls who think they want to marry a boy and learning because their parents can afford it.
But it's a very hard life.
If your husband is serious about it, if he's not serious about it, it's not a big deal.
There are people who come to Israel to learn, but it's really just a long honeymoon.
It's not learning at all.
But a guy who's going to sit and learn, seriously, long term?
Are you prepared for that?
That life of sacrifice?
Where the wife doesn't see the husband all day and waits till he comes home?
To greet him with a cup of tea and a few cookies?
You know?
And tell him how much she appreciates it?
And that she's raising the children by herself?
And that she's trying to pay the bills and handle everything?
He's not around to do sponger?
He's not there to go shopping?
Do you want that?
So if you say, well, no, but I'll marry a guy who's in Kolel and will go out to E a few nights a week, you know,
and he'll take off every now and then when I have a doctor's appointment,
and he'll drive the kids here and there, you know.
So then it's not a learning boy.
You understand?
You're living the life of a retiree.
That's okay.
That's also nice.
But if you want to be serious about it, ask yourself if you want that.
So that's why when you say, is it fair that women have to go to work nowadays?
No.
It's not fair.
In an ideal world, the husband will go to work, the wife will stay home and take care of the children.
Sometimes it's an economic necessity.
What are you going to do?
If your husband doesn't make enough money to support the family,
so why do I have to go to work?
You don't.
You could be poor.
Do you want to be poor?
Are you okay with that?
Want to rinse out the little plastic cups and use them again?
You okay with that?
You want to get your shetan and g'mach?
You okay with that?
Never going on vacation?
If so, then don't sit back like a princess and say,
my husband works and he doesn't make enough money.
Why do I have to go to work?
You don't have to.
Be poor.
Jews have done it for centuries.
That's okay.
You want to be poor?
But if you say, why do I have to go to work?
It's not fair.
You don't have to.
You could stay home and be poor.
Or you could go to work and your husband can go to work.
But if you say, I want a husband who's going to learn in yeshiva,
I want him to learn shtark,
and I will take on the all of supporting the family,
you for sure don't have to.
Don't marry a learning boy.
I tell this to girls all the time.
If you don't want to work and you don't want to support a husband
and you want him around,
don't marry a learning boy.
But if you think you want to be the rochel to the Rebbe Ya'kiva,
then you're marrying someone and you're telling him,
go out and learn for 12 years and I'll take care of everything.
But if you don't want that lifestyle, then be honest.
And say, okay, I'll marry a guy.
We'll go to Israel and learn for a couple of years,
which is really just a long honeymoon and we'll have fun together.
And then he'll go and get a job.
And if he gets a good enough job, then I'll stay home with the kids.
And if not, then I'll have to do some work also.
Not because it's fair, but because it's an economic reality.
Read Esher's Chayel.
You know, she was, you know, she was working in the story over there.
She was going out and selling stuff.
So if you can make it on your husband's salary, that's fine.
If not, only marry somebody rich.
Then you don't have to work.
Why do I have to work?
You don't have to.
Marry somebody rich who can maintain you in the lifestyle
to which you have grown accustomed
and you don't have to do anything.
But if your husband's not making enough money
and you want to stay married to him
and you don't want to be poor,
then you're going to have to work to contribute to it.
And if you want to marry a boy in learning,
then you're going to have to find some way to support him.
And if you don't, like I say, just marry somebody who's rich.
And for sure don't marry a boy in learning.
Don't do that to him.
Let some girl who actually believes in this stuff marry him
and have the messiris nefesh to be able to support a husband in learning
because she thinks that that's the greatest thing in the world.
But if you don't want to, then for sure don't.
Don't.
Don't do that to a nice guy in learning.
I've seen guys who married girls
who thought they wanted to marry a guy in learning
and then realized they didn't
and drove him crazy until he left learning.
Leave the poor boy alone.
Let some girl who's serious about this marry him
and you marry a guy who's got a good job
and will support you
in the way to which you've grown accustomed.
This is Dov Rolowski
with our question and answer series.
