[Why Didn't Hashem Just Make Us Not Feel Embarrassed?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/why-didnt-hashem-just-make-us-not-feel-embarrassed)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
This question we've dealt with in the podcast,
but obviously whoever's writing in this question
either doesn't remember it from there or didn't see it.
And it's a fundamental enough question that I'm willing to spend time on it.
If the reason Hashem didn't put us in Gan Eden
is because we would be embarrassed because we didn't earn it,
why didn't Hashem make us not embarrassed?
This is such a fundamental question.
The Zayah Kaddish says that,
why didn't we go right into Olam Haba?
And the answer is because of Lechem D'Kisufa.
That when you hand somebody something that they didn't earn,
they don't enjoy it as much as if they earned it.
And so the question that the listener is asking is,
well, why didn't Hashem just make us
that we could enjoy it without earning it?
Can't Hashem do anything?
And the answer is, yes, Hashem can do anything.
But he can't do that.
And I'm quoting here Rabbi Yaakov Weinberg,
the reshiva of Ney Yisrael,
when he was asked this question.
Because what's the greatest thing in the world?
The greatest thing in the world is to be like HaKadosh Baruch Hu.
What is HaKadosh Baruch Hu?
HaKadosh Baruch Hu is Ein Sof.
He's limitless.
He's infinite.
Right?
He goes beyond everything.
And we as human beings,
we are finite,
and we are limited,
and we are dependent.
If you want to be like HaKadosh Baruch Hu,
you have to be unlimited,
independent,
and infinite.
Now, we can't,
because we're human beings.
But we can be less limited.
We can be less finite,
and we can be more independent.
Oh, we know this.
A little kid is very dependent.
But they very much want to be more independent.
They want to feed themselves,
even though they're not very good at it.
Sometimes they want to get dressed by themselves.
They want to go outside like the big kids.
People want to go on the ride,
even though they can't reach the little clown's hand
to be able to go on the ride.
People want to be big.
There's a desire for me to be able to be older,
to be able to move beyond who I am.
That was the whole theme of the Tom Hanks movie
called Big in the 1980s.
This little kid wanted to be big.
People want to move beyond who they are.
We want to be less limited.
Moshe Shapiro said once,
why are people so happy when they get the car?
It's not just the financial value,
because if you gave them the money of the car,
they wouldn't be as happy as having a car.
Because a car makes you less limited.
I can go to more places.
I can do more things.
People want to be more independent.
They want to move beyond their boundaries.
They want to push beyond where they are.
That is the natural state.
So, if a Kiddush Baruch Hu created you
and put you in Olam Haba,
all he could do is trick you.
And he could program you to say,
you're very happy.
But you're not happy,
because you're not like a Kiddush Baruch Hu at all.
Just the opposite.
You were put here in Olam Haba.
You were completely dependent,
completely limited,
and completely finite.
You're not like a Kiddush Baruch Hu at all.
Except what?
He could fool you into thinking
that you're having the greatest pleasure.
But the greatest pleasure is to be like a Kiddush Baruch Hu.
And in order to do that,
he has to put you someplace
where you can make choices.
And if you can't make any choices,
then you're not like a Kiddush Baruch Hu at all.
In which case,
there's no point in creating you.
You might as well just make a computer program.
You push a button and it says,
happy, happy, happy, happy.
Because you wouldn't be doing anything.
You wouldn't be getting anything out of life.
So you're saying,
why didn't the Kiddush Baruch Hu fool us
and put us inside of the matrix
so we think we have a life
and we think that we're married,
we think we have kids,
and we think we're enjoying ourselves.
And none of it's true.
We're just a brain hooked up to wires.
What would be the point of that?
Kiddush Baruch Hu didn't create us for a lie.
He created us to get the greatest possible pleasure,
which is to be like a Kiddush Baruch Hu.
And the only way you can do that
is by making yourself more independent,
by making yourself more unlimited,
and making yourself beyond this world.
And that's why he put us in this world,
for us to be able to become more like Hashem.
Then you can have a relation
with the Kiddush Baruch Hu as equals.
This is David Olavsky
with that question and answer series.
