[Does Hashem Really Care?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/does-hashem-really-care)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series. We're in a few minutes. We try to answer readers' questions.
A young man from a firm home who went OTD off the derich confronted me with two complaints about halacha.
The detailed halachas of Hashkamah's Habaikeh and Hilchah's Beis Hakiseh.
And he said, does Hashem really care?
So, this is a very important point.
And it applies to every area of Judaism.
One of my kids was making a bracha, and I said, when you make a bracha, you should really hold it in your right hand.
I was a Jewish person there who didn't have a positive attitude and said, what difference does it make? Who cares?
I said, because if there weren't any details, I wouldn't keep this.
You know why? Because it's just make-believe.
Either Judaism makes a difference or it doesn't make a difference.
People say, oh, come on, I'm Pesach. Does it really matter how much matzah I eat or how much wine I drink?
And the answer is, yes.
Yes, it does.
Because if you tell me I have a mitzvah to eat, then there has to be a definition of what eating is.
Otherwise, it's nibbling.
And when you say there's something that's called drinking, there's a difference between drinking and called sipping.
There has to be a difference.
And if you don't have definitions, then it's just because the whole thing is just a joke and who cares?
Why should I keep anything?
But if, in fact, God created the heavens and the earth, which means he created a physical world and a spiritual world.
And just like a physical world has rules.
Water freezes at 32 degrees and boils at 212.
Or if you're a centigrade guy, it freezes at zero and boils at 100.
And just like if you fall off of a building, you're going to die.
And just like if you eat poison, you're going to die.
And just like if you use a power saw on your lap, there's a very good chance you're going to cut off your leg.
There are real rules that exist in the physical world.
There are real rules that exist in the spiritual world.
It's real.
If it wasn't real, then why keep it?
So I don't know why these laws, more than anything else, bother you.
Every single law is the same thing.
Either it's real or it's not real.
And if it's real, then the details on a spiritual level make as much of a difference as on a physical level.
Now, if you look at each one of those, maybe we'll talk about that once in a podcast.
You know, about washing your hands in the morning and getting up.
And all the brachas that we make and all the things that we do when we get up in the morning that sets in motion our day has significance.
And that's what it is sometimes.
A person knows when they have a headache, they take an aspirin.
They don't know why the aspirin makes them feel better, but they know it does.
And I don't care if you substitute, you know, aspirin with, you know, an Advil or Tylenol or, you know, a leave or anything else.
All you know is I take this pill and I feel better.
I don't know how it works.
So a lot of people are going through the motions of spirituality without knowing exactly how it affects them.
But just because I don't know doesn't mean that it doesn't.
And that's why when a person says, I'm annoyed by these laws and I don't know what they are,
the correct response would be, well, why don't we find out what they're all about before we write them off?
This is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
