[Would the Torah Kill Baby Hitler?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/would-the-torah-kill-baby-hitler)

Hi, this is David Olomsky with our Question and Answer series where we try in a few minutes to answer listeners' questions.
We just read the Parsha of Bensora Umayra about the rebellious son who gets killed because we see from his behavior that eventually he's going to become a thief and a murderer.
And so we say better that he should die before he does his sins.
That's the Parsha.
As we approach Rosh Hashanah, we lay in the Parsha of Yishmael where it says,
God judged him as he was at the time.
How are we properly able to understand this with the age-old baby Hitler question?
Okay, so for those of you who are not familiar with the baby Hitler question,
if you could go back into time and you see little Adolf Schickelgruber in his crib, that was his name originally, Schickelgruber,
and you kill him and thus prevent all of the evil that Hitler does, would you be justified in doing that?
And that's apparently what we say by the Mentsora Morim.
So how come when Yishmael is about to die of thirst and he's davening, Hagar's davening,
and the Malachim say,
Hey, this person who in the future is going to kill your children with thirst,
you're going to make a miracle to provide water for him?
Right?
Rashi brings this down and Hashem says,
Right now, what is he?
Tzadik or Rasha?
I judge him by Asher Husham, how he is now.
Well, this is a great question.
And the Sifseh HaChamim by Yishmael asks this question.
What's the difference between him and the Mentsora Morim?
Or baby Hitler question.
In my opinion, if you were to go back into time and kill baby Hitler, would you be justified?
Yes, because you know for sure how the story ends up.
That's why HaKadosh Baruch Hu tells us,
Wipe out a Malach because if you don't, they will grow up and kill you.
I'm telling you this for sure.
Not a question.
I'm telling you absolutely.
A Malach will, at any opportunity, kill you.
There's no redemption arc for a Malach.
Yeah?
Yeah.
And Hitler, obviously, was a Malach.
Right?
Whether or not you can check his genealogy back or not, I don't know.
But Revi Yosef HaChem Zunnenfeld said that the Germans show all the classic signs of a Malach.
So, if you were to kill a Malach, would that be a good thing?
That would for sure be a good thing.
That's the way that HaKadosh Baruch Hu ideally, you know, is warning us beforehand and we know for sure.
But when it came to Yishmael, Yishmael didn't do anything yet to deserve dying of thirst.
Now, Malach will say, eventually his children will do something.
And Hashem says, yeah, but that's not Yishmael right now.
Right now, he didn't do it.
That his generations in the future will do something?
That's not enough reason to kill him who he is now.
By the Ben Saramora, the Torah tells us,
you can see from his behavior that his addictions are such that after he's burnt through his parents' money,
his only other option to support his addictions are going to be to turn to a life of crime
and eventually he's going to kill people to get their money.
I'm telling you that for certain.
And therefore, stop him now.
Just like I tell you by a Malach.
But by Yishmael, he has not done anything.
That his descendants will eventually do something?
That's not a reason to kill him now.
And in fact, Yishmael at the end of time will do tshuva.
And they will come back into the family of nations.
They do a lot of damage along the way, 100%.
But they're not a lost cause.
Like a Malach, as Bilaam in his prophecy tells us,
will ultimately be destroyed because there is no redemption arc for an Malach.
But there is for a Yishmael.
This is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
Thank you.
