[What Is the Rav’s Opinion of Going to Uman for Rosh Hashana?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-is-the-ravs-opinion-of-going-to-uman-for-rosh-hashana)

Hi, this is David Olomson with that question and answer, where in a few minutes we try to answer listeners' questions.
What is the Rav's opinion of going to Orlando for Pesach, Sukkot in Yerushalayim, Rosh Hashanah in Uman?
You know, there was a professor of mathematics in Harvard University.
His name was Tan Lera. He happened to be Jewish.
And of course, being a professor of mathematics, he's best known for the fact that he wrote funny songs.
Because that's our society.
As J.R.R. Tolkien, who was a professor in Oxford, a very academic.
And he says, do you think you'll be best remembered for your academic works or for the Lord of the Rings?
He goes, oh, for sure the Lord of the Rings.
Who's going to read any of my academic work?
So he's best known for his funny songs.
Anyway, he wrote this song on exactly this topic.
I'm spending Hanukkah in Santa Monica, wearing candles, lighting sandals by the sea.
I'll spend Shavuos in East St. Louis, a lovely spot, but definitely not the spot for me.
Those eastern winters, I can't endure them.
So every year I pack my gear and move out here till Purim, Rosh Hashanah.
I spend in Arizona and Yom Kippur, way down in Mississippi.
But in December, there's just one place for me.
Among the California flora, I'll be lighting my menorah like a baby in his cradle.
I'll be playing with his dreidel.
Oh, that Judah Maccabeus, if he could only see us spending Hanukkah and Santa Monica by the sea.
So there's this phenomenon that Jews move around.
I, one year, went to Orlando for Pesach because my mother wanted to go.
And as it turned out, it was her last Pesach.
Nobody wanted to schlep her.
She wasn't well at the time.
And I said, I'll come from Eretzrel and go.
I know people who go to Orlando for Florida.
I can't understand it.
I can't understand it.
I'm going to, I'm going to leave Eretzrel, Davka on Pesach.
Yeah.
So, so I don't understand leaving Eretzrel if you're in Eretzrel.
Well, and if you're outside Eretzrel and you want to come to Eretzrel because of the idea of being early regal, I think that's a wonderful thing.
So, sukkahs in Yerushalayim, nothing like sukkahs in Yerushalayim.
Yeah.
I know people who told me, until I came to Yerushalayim, I didn't even know there was a concept of being able to sleep in the sukkah.
Where I come from, it's either freezing or it's so hot, you know, whatever the case happens to be.
Yeah.
Uman, I don't know what to tell you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If Nachman gave a promise that if you daven by his kevra and Rosh Hashanah, then you'll go to Olam Haba.
Ken Zayn.
I cannot imagine leaving Yerushalayim for Rosh Hashanah to go any place, no matter what the situation is.
So, no, I'm not going to endorse being any place other than Eretzrel if you have the opportunity.
This is David Olavsky with that question and answer.
