[If I Butcher Davening, Should I Just Stop?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/if-i-butcher-davening-should-i-just-stop)

Hi, this is David Olomsky with our question and answer series.
I always end up rushing through davening, stumbling over words, losing my place.
And I'm not good with pronunciation, even though I know how important davening is.
I usually finish feeling frustrated because I just butchered the prayer real bad.
Would it be better not to daven at all as a female?
Or do you have any tips for how I can improve?
Yes.
Let's be very clear.
Everybody has a Yetzir HaR and a Yetzir Tov.
There's a little voice inside of you telling you maybe you shouldn't daven.
Who do you think is saying that?
Is it a good witch or a bad witch?
Yeah.
So definitely you should daven.
But if, as you point out, right, I don't have a chiv of tefillah, so then.
You should say brachas in the morning, right?
Those are pretty easy.
Easy to concentrate.
Take your time.
And then say shmona esrei.
That's it.
And people ask me sometimes,
I'm thinking of becoming a speaker.
What should I do?
I said, speak.
That's the best way to become a speaker.
The more you speak, the better you'll come.
My father, Vashalem, used to say, the reason you get a driver's license is so that you then are able to go out and learn how to drive.
But when you get your driver's license, you don't know how to drive.
It takes years of driving experience to get good at it.
Malcolm Gladwell wrote a book called The Tipping Point.
There's a certain period of time where you finally become proficient at something.
I think it's, I don't remember the number.
I don't know if it was 500 hours, 5,000 hours, whatever it is.
A certain period of time that you need in order to master something.
So yeah.
So cut out everything else, if that's your problem.
Just focus on Shmona Esri.
That is tefillah.
Everything else is, you know, other things.
Kriya Shema, it's good to do.
Definitely.
It's a mitzvah di Arisa to say Kriya Shema.
But when we talk about tefillah, it's Shmona Esri.
And practice it.
What you might want to do is get a tape.
Okay, I'm old.
Tape.
Let's try again.
A recording.
Of someone saying the Shmona Esri slowly.
And play it along with you as you say it.
And follow along with it.
To be able to improve.
You might want to record yourself saying Shmona Esri when you daven.
And I know Shmona Esri is silent.
Don't worry about it.
You can say it out loud.
I'll give you a head.
You know.
I mean, I don't assume you're davening in shul, right?
You're davening by yourself.
So, take your time.
Work only on Shmona Esri.
Kriya Shema.
The first brachas in the morning.
Make sure you get those things down.
And that's it.
And stick to it.
Stick to it.
There's a learning curve.
Where it takes a little while to master.
And once you master it, then it becomes that much easier.
And so, that's why I would put my concentration on one bracha at a time.
Practice saying the first bracha correctly.
And then mumble through the rest.
I don't care.
And then, when you feel comfortable with the first, add the second.
Add the third.
This, by the way, is in the Sefer Cheshvan HaNefesh.
He mentions this.
He says, take your time.
Work on one bracha at a time until you get it down.
And then move on to the next one.
It'll take you longer.
But, as Aesop said, slow and steady wins the race.
And that's why the tortoise was able to beat the hare.
And one of the most ridiculous stories that I've ever heard in my life.
I don't care how slow this rabbit is.
You know, he took a nap before the finish line in the turtle.
Have you ever seen a turtle move?
There's not a chance that he was able to keep up.
Unless this was a very, very short race, like, you know, about this before.
But the message is, slow and steady wins the race.
You know?
And that's it.
You don't have to be the best tomorrow.
You have to be the best at the end of your life when you look back.
So, invest the time.
Because tefillah is something precious that is a gift to the Jewish people.
And we should not let it slip out of our hands.
This is David Olonofsky with our question and answer.
