[Does Sukkos Spoil Yom Kippur?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/does-sukkos-spoil-yom-kippur)

Hi, this is David Olofsky with our question and answer series,
where we try to give short answers to long and complicated questions, like this one,
which is very long and my answer is going to be very short.
Shmuel Jacobs, why does our calendar encourage resolutions to improve
and then prevent them from taking hold?
Imagine a principal held a meeting with a student in the fall
to determine whether he should get another year to achieve something.
The principal and student agree that the student will improve in specific areas
and that he'll bear certain responsibilities, jobs, learning goals, community, responsibility,
or suffer some learning opportunities.
And ultimately, the student is granted another year.
Now, imagine the principal tells the student to spend most of the next four weeks partying.
That appears to be planning to fail.
Why not spend a few weeks at Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur putting our ambition into effect
so that it can actually take hold in our daily lives?
I have a problem with the underlying premise.
I don't think after Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur we're supposed to be partying.
The Gemara says that by Lulev and Esra,
you will take on the first day.
And the Chazal are troubled by this because normally when we talk in Parshas Amor,
we say on the 15th day of this month, on the 10th day of this month,
we give a date.
How come here it says on the first day?
So the Gemara says,
because the first day you have a chance to sin
because you're spending the four days after Yom Kippur,
Oisik in Torah and Mitzvahs.
You're buying your Dalat Minim.
You're getting ready for Yantav.
You're building your Sukkah.
You're doing all of these Mitzvahs.
It's exactly what you're supposed to be doing after Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur,
putting all your effort into it.
And then you go into Sukkot.
Well, I guess to you, Sukkah may appear as if it's a party,
but in fact, as we know,
the Sukkah is like a Mishkan.
And we go into there in order to be filled with Kedusha,
such Kedusha that the Gemara says they were so busy over Sukkot
and the voters Hashem, they didn't have a chance to sleep.
They used to put their head on their friend's shoulder
and Chabadrimal, as they say,
catch a little catnap and then go back to all of the celebration,
the Kedusha and the Simcha that took place.
Anyone who never saw the Simchas Beis HaShoeva
never saw a Simcha beforehand.
And then when you come out of it,
you go into Simchas Teira, Shemini Yatzeres,
where the whole time is celebrating the Teira.
And then you don't go right back.
You continue in Chishrei.
We don't say Tachnan,
because Tishrei is all about continuing that Kedusha
of Roshani Yom Kippur and Sukkot throughout the entire month.
So I have a problem with your underlying assumption,
and I hope this in some way answers the question.
And then...
...
...
