[What If You Hate Sitting In The Sukkah?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-if-you-hate-sitting-in-the-sukkah)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series.
What if you hate sitting in the sukkah? Are you failing sukkah?
I guess what he means by saying, are you failing sukkah, meaning
are you not really fulfilling the mitzvah properly?
Well, of course,
you have to do all of your mitzvahs b'simcha.
The Maharal says,
the only schar you get for a mitzvah is because of the zirizis of the mitzvah.
So if you hate it, let me put it this way.
Give it a choice between doing the mitzvah sukkah and hating it and not doing the mitzvah sukkah.
Should you do the mitzvah sukkah? Yes, you should.
Should you do the mitzvah sukkah and hate it? No, absolutely not.
Obviously, a mitzvah should be something delightful.
So the first thing I say is,
it's Ratzon Hashem.
Hashem wants us to do this.
So that alone should be enough.
Right?
If you,
you don't like doing the dishes,
but you know it'll make your wife happy.
So you might do the dishes,
not because you like doing the dishes,
but because you know that it makes your wife happy.
So Kirsh Baruch Hu wants you to sit in the sukkah,
so that alone should be enough of a motivation for you to sit in the sukkah.
So that's the,
to me,
the simplest explanation.
But if I can give you one thing to try to focus on,
is that look up at the shkach,
and remember that it's a week of the year that we sit without a roof.
You can't live without a roof.
A house is a roof.
If you don't have a roof,
you don't have a house.
HaKadosh Baruch Hu is the roof.
HaKadosh Baruch Hu
Proso Leinu Sukash Leimecha
Hashem is protecting us,
and Hashem is over us,
and watching for us.
What could be better than that?
I don't know about you,
but I don't have that many infinite friends.
And when one of them says,
I want to spend time with you,
and have a special relation with you,
I think it's something
that we should all want to take advantage of.
So find what you enjoy.
If there are special foods that you enjoy,
there's certain music you enjoy,
things you want to do,
do it out in the sukkah.
As much as possible,
make your sukkah as comfortable and enjoyable as you can.
And if you still just don't like it,
well, you know,
there are things that we do that we're not crazy about.
But we do them anyway.
When one of my kids would throw up in the middle of the night,
and they'd come to my room,
I didn't want to get out of bed,
and deal with all of the vomit,
and change all the sheets,
and clean them up.
But I love my kids.
So even though I enjoy it,
I'm glad that I have the opportunity
to help take care of my children.
When we do what we know we're supposed to do,
it can only be a good thing.
Nyan Diff.
