[What Should A Simchas Bais Hashoaivah Look Like?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-should-a-simchas-bais-hashoaivah-look-like)

Hey Rabbi. Yes. How in your eyes, Simchas Beisr Shoei was supposed to look like?
The Mishnah describes in the time of the Beisr Mikdash that at nightfall they would light these tremendous lamps
and all of Yerushalayim was lit up from the light and everybody would get together and
everybody would play instruments and everybody would come to the Beisr Mikdash and the G'dolim and Anshim
Maisa would dance and only they would dance. Everybody else would watch and it was, can you
imagine being in the Beisr Mikdash and you're watching the greatest people of our generation
dancing before Kodesh Baruch Hu. Yerushalayim Zanenfeld used to push himself when he was old
and he had problems with his feet. He would push himself to dance at the Simchas Beisr Shoei
and they say, Rabbi, why are you pushing yourself so much? He says, because it says that when
Mashiach comes only the Hasidim and Anshimais are allowed to dance. Today we can all dance.
When Mashiach comes who knows if they'll let me dance. I might not be right. So today that we can
dance every Yid has the right to go and to celebrate. And I have to tell you, this is one
of the things you see by Simchas Torah also. People don't dance. Some people even stand outside
because they don't feel like they're a part of it. And then comes the Simchas Beisr Shoei,
but they're not dancing. Why? Because they don't feel like they're a part of it. They're not
celebrating it. And we have to say to ourselves, the Simcha that we get, Sukkot says,
the happiness we get from being close to our Kiddush Baruch Hu, we're in the Sukkot.
Tachas, kan veyashchina, Hashem is over us. We don't have a roof. We have a Kiddush Baruch Hu
watching over us and caring for us. How could that not fill us with happiness? And happiness
leads to Rikud. Rikud is that dancing. And I heard a Peshat many years ago. I don't remember
who it was from. I heard it from Ramechel Kaplan, but I don't remember who he said it from.
He says, on Yom Kippur we do Heshtachava, Peshat Yedayim V'Raglayim.
We spread ourselves out on the floor. And on Sukkot, we do the Heshtachava standing up
and we dance with our arms and legs extended just like we did the Heshtachava, only now we're
standing up dancing before Hashem. That's where the Simcha that should be.
It's not about the eating. It's about the music and the dancing. And if you're at a real one,
they say the 15 Shi'amalois. And it's just that celebration, a celebration of being a Yid
on Sukkot, being closed to Hashem.
