[What Is a Real Simchas Torah?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-is-a-real-simchas-torah)

Rabbi. Yes. What is a real Simcha's Torah in your eyes?
You know, in an ideal world, because Kiddush Baruch who set up the Torah and
Yahados that it should be ideal. Okay, if it's not ideal, we figure out what to do.
And I think it was Rav Kuperman from Mechala who said, I think, that he said,
Halacha will tell you what to do in any situation. Hashkafer tells you what
situations to be in. So if Nebuch, you know, a kid is a mamza, there's Halacha,
it's what happens. But as the Kashrus Newsletter says, not recommended.
And then you should behave in a way. So let's say you did it right.
Yeah. So you went through all of Elo. And you used Elo as that preparation.
Anilu do divu do di li, that Hashem loves me. And then you had Rosh Hashanah,
where we were mam lecha Kiddush Baruch, and we made him the king.
And he's in charge of the entire world. Right? At least us. At least us he's in
charge of. Yeah. And then we did a serz mei tshuva to live our best life.
To become as Hashem, Disho Hashem beyimat. So he comes closer and closer and closer to us.
And on Yom Kippur, we mamash walk into the Kersh HaKadoshim. We're on the highest level.
We're like Malochim. We dress in ways.
Say, Baruch Hashem, Kavot Machu, Sola, Elom Pahed, out loud.
And then we have four days where the Chazals say,
there's so much energy that's pushing you forward. You don't even have a time to do a chay.
That's why it says,
On the first day that you're possible to do anything wrong,
because you couldn't do it during those four days.
You had so much energy from Hashem Yom Kippur.
Then we go into Sukkot, where we're half in this world and half out.
Where we have the roof over our head.
It's been taken away and replaced with the Shach,
which is a Kersh Baruch Hu being Soichech, is being Ufrosa Leinu Sukash Leimecha.
Hashem puts the Sukkot over us.
And we stay there for a week.
And we enjoy being in Hashem's presence.
And then at the end, we have to pick up the Sefer Torah
that stood in the middle of the Bima and we danced around it with our Dalad Minim.
We put down the Dalad Minim and we pick up the Sefer Torah and we dance around with it.
So a real Simchas Torah, you know, my mother used to stay in a hotel for Sukkot
and we'd come and join them.
Simchas Torah was not a Simchas Torah.
Because Simchas Torah should be the people you spent Rosh Hashanah with
and Yom Kippur with and Aserah Simei Tshuva with and Elul with
and built and Sukkot with.
And then when you reach that end, then you have that crescendo
where we celebrate the Torah.
I love the Torah.
It's my entire life.
The words of Torah are greater than gold and silver.
We sing all these things about how precious the Torah is.
Everybody is supposed to get a Hakofah and hold the Sefer Torah and embrace it
and say, wow, I'm taking the Sefer Torah with me.
I'm taking all of these times.
Hoshana Rabe is Hoshana.
Na is 51.
Because if you go from Elul, 30 days of Elul and then 21 days of Tishrei, that's 51.
That finishes it.
Then Nagila Ben-Nusmecha Bach is 22.
The 22nd day is where we get that celebration of taking everything we've done
and bringing it back into our lives and into our regular world.
