[What Should You Get Your Husband For Chanukah?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/husband-chanukah-gift)

Hi, this is David Rolofsky with a special Hanukkah question and answer.
By Yehova G. Hi, David Rolofsky. Huge fan here.
I've listened to every one of your podcasts.
They are the highlight of my week. I'm so glad. Thank you.
My questions are, what is the best gift you ever received?
And what should I get my husband for Hanukkah?
Oh, that's easy. A tie.
Ha ha ha ha ha. Just kidding there.
That's just the sort of standard thing that people give, you know.
When you give a gift certificate or something like that, not a lot of thought has gone into it, right?
To be able to find a gift that's an appropriate gift is an art form.
And you have to really understand the person.
I've received gifts, and like I say, I don't expect really anything.
You know, I feel a little bit like Yaakov Yeshli Kol.
And I don't really look at my life as being chosir.
So I asked my wife.
I said, what's the best gift I ever got?
So she said, probably Yoshtenda.
I was doing counseling with somebody.
And they want to pay me.
And I never take money for counseling because I have no qualifications.
And I don't know what I'm doing.
And so I don't believe that I have a right to take money for that.
You know, if I help anybody, it's Yat Ha Deshmay.
Nonetheless, they wanted to buy me something.
And they bought me a Shtenda.
You know, one of those ones that, you know, you can, with the little knobs.
And you can lower it.
You can raise it, etc.
That was something that I still use to this day.
And that's, I suppose, when you talk about a gift, what you have to think of.
Is it something that a person's going to use long term?
Sphuram.
I have for my wedding, 43 years ago.
People got me Sphuram and inscribed them.
And some of these Sphuram are Sphuram that I use all the time.
And I turn to it.
I open it up.
I see the inscription.
That's particularly meaningful to me.
So you have to figure out what is going to be meaningful to your husband.
And so, therefore, what will work for me is not going to necessarily work for him.
So you get different presents along the line that are like, they seem like they're in at the time or that they're fun at the time, you know.
But I've gotten family pictures that I could put up of all of my family.
That's a lot of fun.
You know, a car.
That's also nice, you know.
But everybody has to look at it for themselves and see what's meaningful.
And again, you have to figure out what's within your price range.
So you have to be real.
So sometimes a gift can be meaningful because of the effort that was put into it instead of the absolute value of it.
And it might remind people years later of something special that you held on to that came in.
So like I say, it's a very personal type of a thing.
But I will tell you the following story since you ask about gifts.
Ami Cohen, who's the son of Reb David Cohen,
Zagazut and Shtark,
whatever the occasion was, they wanted to buy him a present.
And I said, what are we going to get him?
He has like every say for ever.
So they said, Mestama, he doesn't even know what he has.
So they went down to the basement.
They found a box of svarim that was under the steps.
And they took out one and wrapped it up.
And they gave it to him.
He said, Tata, we got you a gift, you know.
And he opens it up and he goes,
Oh, Baruch Hashem.
I've really wanted to get this safer.
And they all smiled to each other.
He says, because I have a copy and it's missing three pages.
I've always wanted to see what was missing in those three pages.
I'm so glad you got me another copy.
So, if you are going to give something,
give it a little bit more thought.
And that's it.
We should have a Luchtenchen Hanukkah.
