[Why Do I Pronounce It ‘Laich Lecha’?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/laich-lecha)

Hi, this is Dr. Olavsky with our Question and Answer Shorts.
This question was submitted by the Heiliger Rabbi Aaron Friedler.
Many times you quote from Parshish Lech Lecha and you call it Lech Lecha,
with a tzereh under the lamed of Lech.
Why do you pronounce it that way?
There is a segel under the lamed and not a tzereh.
The answer is because I am sloppy and I have a comical Long Island accent.
That's why I pronounce river with an A at the end instead of an E-R,
because that's just the way I talk.
I remember I was teaching Gemara and I said the Gemara brings three sauces.
And one of the guys laughs and says mushroom, onion and vegetable.
I was like, what? He says it's sources, not sauces.
So it does remind me when I was davening for the Yomad for my father.
And somebody left an anonymous note in my mailbox and said,
they say you know how to learn.
So I don't know why you don't know how to daven.
And he emphasized three things that I was doing in davening.
One is in Kedusha,
Nekadesh eshemcha ba'olam,
he felt I was saying it with a sheva,
ba'olam, instead of a cometz, ba'olam.
And then,
HaShiva Shavtenu Kavarishona V'yoat Tseinu Kivat Chila.
He again thought I was also doing a sheva instead of a cometz.
And the other one was something in Kedush.
I have to say the truth,
I am really shocked that anybody listened to my davening that closely.
I'm also shocked they only caught me on three things, you know,
because I had made a lot of mistakes when I was davening.
This was a different minyan that I had gone to.
But an earlier minyan.
And the person said,
you know, it says in the Gemara and Brachos,
who established the three tefilas?
Ovas Tichnu,
the fathers, meaning Avram Yisrael Yaka,
established it,
or Kabanois Tichnu,
or were they based on the Kabanois?
So he says to me,
that's Pshat, Ovas Tichnu.
When your father dies,
you have to be Matake in your tefillah.
So I will not promise you
that I'm going to say Leich Lecha correctly from here on in,
but I do appreciate you putting it out.
By the way, the correct way,
everybody who learns Gemara,
at least in all my years of Gemara,
says Mesve,
the correct pronunciation is Mesave.
And you can pronounce it that way.
But most people just say Mesve.
Somebody once went to Rav Moshe Feinstein
and complained that the yeshiva guys
don't know any Diktuk.
They don't learn Diktuk
and they don't know how to pronounce things.
And Rav Moshe looked at him and said,
you know, it's really Diktuk.
Anyway, thank you for the shout out
and for the observation.
And I appreciate you listening
and I appreciate you listening that closely.
And if that's the only mistake that you have caught,
my gosh,
I'm doing a lot better than I thought.
And that's it till next time.
Thank you very much, everybody.
This is the Rabbi Olofsky question and answer shorts.
Thank you.




Thank you.
