[Fixing Unesaneh Tokef](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/fixing-unesaneh-tokef)

Hi, this is David Orlovsky with a new program from the Rabbi Orlovsky Show, and that is we're
answering all of our listeners' questions as much as we can in little shorts to be able to try to
catch up on the backlog of questions that we have that has been accumulating over the years, quite
a few in fact. As always, if you would like to sponsor an entire episode or a Parsha in five,
or one of these questions and answers, please go to my website, Rabbi Orlovsky.com,
and click on the Sponsor button to sponsor any of these different things that we're doing,
because we need your support to keep doing this kind of wonderful programming.
Okay, Anonymous writes, I listened to Why Be Jewish many times, and I now have trouble with
the Sanatokif since what even is pestilence keeps running through my head. Can you please
rebuild the Sanatokif for me? Yeah, this is a common problem. For those who are not familiar with the
Anonymous' question, probably my first go-to talk when I'm talking to a new audience is called Why Be
Jewish. And it's basically an introduction about why a person should be Jewish today. And it's more
or less based on the first two lines in Masil's Hisharim about what life is all about and why we're
here. And I begin by eliminating all of the other reasons that people give until I get to the real
one, right? And one of the things I go through is people say, well, you got to be, you know, Jewish,
you got to be religious, or you're going to burn in hell. And I spend some time building that up,
because I would like to eliminate that as a possibility. That's not why you should be Jewish.
And I say, I understand where it's coming from, right? Rosh Hashanah Yim Kippur is a very heavy time,
and it seems to give us this attitude. I said, it's summed up best in that Nesana Tokev. You know,
you're a kid. And I was a kid. You go to shul, and the chazan says,
we understood what he was saying. Someone might live, but you're going to die. And the choir goes,
die, die, die, die, die, die. And I'm like, oh man, I'm going to die? What a bummer. But now you get
to pick the way you're going to go. Who by fire, and who by water? Fire's pretty bad. I could
probably tread water for a while, you know. Who by sword, and who by storm? Oh, storm's not so bad.
You know, I saw the Wizard of Oz, you know. Who by earthquake, and who by pestilence? I don't know
what is pestilence. Never heard of anyone dying of that. We'll take the pestilence, Bob. That's the
routine. And the whole thing was there to illustrate that, unfortunately, a lot of people,
this is their Judaism, you know. So what is the downside of that? Most often, I don't ever answer
that particular question. I just go on to my next point, because I'm just trying to eliminate this,
you know, hellfire theory of Judaism, yeah. And I tell the story, I told this, I was talking
to a group of yeshiva guys, and I said, you know, there's no fire, there's no devils, no
pitchforks, right? Because you're a soul, you can't burn a soul. And one guy says, don't
tell that to me. It's the only reason I get up in the morning and go to shul. I said, okay,
we'll open up a special section for you. But of course, it leaves it afterwards with the
question, hey, so now, because it is late sinus, let's be perfectly accurate of what that whole
routine is. And when you laugh at something, you have trouble looking at it seriously. So
now, unfortunately, when people go to Shul Vashonim Kippur, and they start seeing the
Sanatokif, they start chuckling to themselves, pestilence, you know. So it, of course, has
that negative effect. So what is my read of the Sanatokif? Yeah.
On Rosh Hashanah, it's written, and on Yom Kippur, it is sealed.
Who will live and who will die?
Esri Vdesla, but you see, it's not true. Because there are Rosh Hashanah, who live
every year, and they don't die in Rosh Hashanah. They don't die in Yom Kippur. But they're
clearly Rosh Hashanah. So, he gives the answer, the Chazals say this, you can take a look at
Rosh Hashanah, the beginning of a Yechi, he talks about it in a number of places.
Tzadikim, even when they're dead, are called alive. And Rosh Hashanah, even when they're
alive, are called dead. And says Rav Desla, the Rosh Hashanah die on Rosh Hashanah Yom Kippur.
They're just not going to be buried for another 30, 40 years. But their life is already over.
So, we look at Nesad HaTokef, and we say to ourselves the following.
Take a good look at your life, and decide what kind of life you want to live. Because you're
going to be judged on Rosh Hashanah, and that judgment is going to be sealed on Yom Kippur.
And think what you want, very carefully. You want to be alive, or you want to die?
I know it sounds like a stupid question, but trust me. I know a lot of people who are just
staying alive through inertia. They don't want to be alive. They don't want anything to be alive for.
And that's where their greatest delight is sleep. Sleep is death. You want to just be asleep? You
want to miss life? Yeah. Because what do they got to live for? So, they play on their phone,
or they watch movies, or they find something else to distract them and keep them busy until they go
in the ground. But why do you want to be alive? What do you want to be alive for? What do you want to
accomplish? And so, in Rosh Hashanah, we say, who's going to become rich, and who's going to become
poor? Because unfortunately, there are some people, if they become rich, they grow complacent, and they
just spend their money. And there are some people who become poor, become bitter, you know, and say,
have I an excuse now? And the ideal is that the Kiddush Baruch Hu gives us money to be able to do
things with it. And if I want to be an usher and take care of Klai Yisrael, you have that option.
But you better think, what do I want? Yeah? Who will be at peace, and who will be persecuted?
Some people like to be persecuted. I know it sounds almost ridiculous, but people like it.
These are the people who don't do anything until the last minute because they work better under
pressure. And when everything is calm, they do nothing. They need all the aggravation.
And we see people die, fire, floods. They get killed in war. Yeah, all of that's decided today
because decide what life you want, because everyone lives the life that they have chosen at the end
of the day. You don't realize it. There's a fascinating little book called Illusions by Richard Bach.
And basically, there are these two all-powerful cosmic beings. And one of them came down to Earth
and wanted to see what it was like to be a human. And he forgot who he is. And his friend comes to
rescue him. And he just looks at this guy and thinks he's crazy. So they're passing by a movie
theater, and they're playing Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which he says is my favorite movie.
I said, come on, let's watch. And I'm so into the movie. And as we get towards the end,
they're trying to decide the last final scene. It's very dramatic. He turns to me and says,
why are you here? And he says, I'm watching the movie. He says, I know, but why are you here?
He says, I'll talk to you when the movie's over. Yeah, but why are you here? He says, I told you,
I'll talk to you later. After the movie's over and we go outside, I said, why was that so important
to you? And he asked me that question now. And he said, you know, that's not real. It's just light
flickering on the screen. Right? Paul Newman and Robert Redford are not dead. They're living in
Hollywood. They're doing very well. They have careers, families, everything's fine. But you
wanted to lose yourself in that illusion. And that's what this world is. It's an illusion. And
you choose the make-believe that you want. He says, well, what about people who have horrible lives?
He says, those are the people who go to horror movies. And that's the lives that they've chosen.
So we say in the Sanatokhev, I don't want those lives. I want the good life.
Ut shuva, ut fila, ut staka, ma'avir in Israel, ha'gezer. And if God has decided that the only thing
that's going to work on me is negative reinforcement, so I'm going to daven to Hashem and show I'm going
to work on my spiritual relationship with God. And I'm going to give tzaka and I'm going to work
on my relationship with other people and help people who are less fortunate. And shuva, I'm going
to work on my relationship with myself so that hopefully I can be happy with who I am. I hope
that helps to give a little insights into the Sanatokhev the way that I understand it.
Remember, we need sponsors for this to be able to keep it going. And that's it. Until next time,
I am David Orlovsky.
