[Does Palestinian Peoplehood Disprove the Kuzari Principle?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/kuzari)

Hi, this is David Orlovsky with our special question and answer series.
I've gotten a lot of feedback from this.
People apparently appreciate this short-form method of giving short answers
to very long and complicated questions,
which is one of the things that I used to teach rabbis
when I taught in a rabbinical course.
And of course, there's more to say on all of these subjects.
But I want to at least give an answer that's operational for people.
So, Anonymous asks,
How do we reconcile the Kuzari principle that surely an entire nation
could not simultaneously make up a lie regarding their joint national experience
with the false narrative of Palestinian peoplehood?
Isn't that a case of an entire nation making up a lie?
So, for those of you who are not familiar with the Kuzari,
the Kuzari's argument is the following.
No other nation claims that God spoke to their entire nation.
Christianity, Jesus is talking to God.
According to some versions, He is God.
According to other versions, He's the Son of God.
Whatever it is.
But everybody didn't hear God talk.
You heard Jesus.
If that was impressive, fine.
Muhammad said, Allah came to me and told me the following.
This is what he said.
And if you believe Muhammad, fine.
And if not, you know, hey, there's nothing else to go on.
Joseph Smith claimed that an angel led him to a mountain in upstate New York
where he dug up these golden plates that contained the Book of the Mormons
and then they were taken away and nobody ever saw them.
So, if you believe Joseph Smith, fine.
If not, there's nothing else to go with it.
But the Jewish people say,
we had mass revelation and everybody heard God speak.
You got to admit, that's a very good argument.
And says the Kuzari, it's such a good argument that
isn't it surprising that no other religion chose to copy it?
Why doesn't everybody say, you heard God speak?
Because you'll ask the question, I don't remember God speaking.
Because, yeah, you remember God spoke to everybody?
He goes, no.
He spoke to your father.
Dad, did God ever speak to you?
Nope.
I don't know.
He spoke to your grandfather.
Grandpa, did God ever speak to you?
Nope.
He spoke to your great-great-great-grandfather.
How come nobody remembers it?
How could it be that the entire nation doesn't know anything about this
and you suddenly show up and say it?
See, you can't make up a story like that.
That doesn't mean you can't make up a lie.
Of course you can make up a lie.
As Abraham Lincoln said,
You can fool some of the people all of the time
and all of the people some of the time,
but you can't fool all the people all the time.
So, can I fool some people?
Of course a person can make it up.
Here, Mohammed said Allah spoke to him.
We don't believe that's true.
Joseph Smith said,
An angel led me to these golden plates.
We don't believe it,
but people choose to believe him.
So, if a nation wants to make up a lie,
if, you know,
the Pharaoh says that he's a god
and, you know,
and he came from the sun
or whatever he wants to say,
anybody can make up a lie.
People can make up a lie.
No one said,
the Kuzari is not saying you can't make up a lie.
It says,
To make up a lie that God spoke to an entire nation
is never going to work.
That doesn't mean that people can't get together
and make up something else.
And so,
the fact that we find people who lie,
or as we call it today,
fake news,
in no way says
that what the Kuzari is talking about
can't happen.
This has been David Olavsky
with our short question and answer.
