[Chassid or Misnagid?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/chassid-or-misnagid)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer program.
What is Rabbi Olavsky's opinion of chassidists?
If the movement was starting nowadays, would you be a chassid or a misnagin?
This is so hard for me to answer, because how do I know who I would be?
It's a problem. It's easy with the power of foresight.
No question about it.
If a Kodesh Baruch Hu came to me today and told me to speak to the rock
and get out the water, I would not hit it with a stick.
But to be fair, I do have a little something to work with.
If God came to me in a burning bush and told me,
go down to Egypt and save all the Jews, I'd probably go.
But I've seen the story already. I know how it works out.
So I'm at a certain advantage when it comes to these things.
We have that kind of distance.
So I find it a difficult question to answer,
because my grandfather came from Vengrov in Poland.
And whenever I tell this to chassidim, they always laugh.
They used to laugh at me.
They'd say, what? Vengrov?
The whole town was gerach chassidim.
So, mustami, you're gerach chassid.
I asked my father.
He said, my grandfather didn't do anything chassidish.
You know, I had his machzorim.
They were nusukh Ashkenaz.
They were nusukh Svada.
I don't know what you mean.
Getting dressed like a chassid.
Okay.
I don't know if that's a riot.
But people tell me I come from chassidish rites.
I do know that I once met somebody.
My brother introduced me.
And he says, this is my brother, David Orlovsky.
He goes, the speaker?
He says, yeah.
The funny one?
So, he goes, yeah.
The one who speaks in Yiddish?
He goes, no.
There's a Rabbi Dovid Orlovsky who's a gerach chassid, who's the speaker, and he's very funny.
I don't think we're related because he wasn't a Kohen, you know.
But the fact that there's a Dovid Orlovsky who's a gerach chassid who goes around speaking,
does that give me pause?
Sure, it gives me pause.
But even though I'm a Paila Sheyid, I went to Litvash of Yeshivas.
And my Messorah, I went to Yeshiva Chavetz Chaim.
And it went back to the Chavetz Chaim, obviously.
It goes back to the Gerach.
And the Gerach did not support the Hasidic movement at the time.
So, would I have been a Talmud of the Gerach at the time?
I don't know.
It's that kind of speculation.
If you ask me on a philosophical answer, philosophical point of view,
I remember hearing the Tzamech Tzedek said that if the Vilagoyen had not opposed Chassidus,
Chassidus would have become what he was afraid it would become.
Today, the difference between Chassidus and Litvash is not really very serious.
They learn in each other's yeshivas.
They learn in each other's svarim.
Rav Desla was one of, and Rav Hutmeh were one of the main people to pull together,
you know, Litvash HaMusser and Chassidus HaSvarim and bring it together.
So, I don't know.
I will tell you one last story.
Because, like I say, when you talk about historical,
from my point of view, obviously it would depend whoever my rebbe was.
I would have followed my rebbe, you know.
And my rebbeim were all Talmidim of the Gerach.
So, that's my Masorah.
If I had been back there, who my rebbe would have been?
I don't know.
Mestami would have been Nam Harts.
There was no day school movement back then.
Yeah.
But, the first time I was at Project Inspire,
this fellow comes up to me.
He's part of a group called the Traveling Chassidim.
And I go around and make Chassidus HaSvarim in different communities.
And he comes over to me and says,
Rabbi Olavsky, we are your Chassidim.
And I said, wow, I've had people who said they were my Chassidim,
but I never had actual Chassidim say we're my Chassidim.
He says, you're the only one teaching Chassidus today.
I said, what?
He says, yeah, even the people today, Chassidim,
they talk Gehenem, they talk Din,
they talk the love that Chassidus used to be.
You're the only one teaching it.
I said, I come from, we call it Slavotka Musa.
He says, call it what you want.
This is real Chassidim.
So, what can I tell you?
I guess, I guess, I will tell you this much.
I had a, somebody who once did a check into our Yichos,
and it turns out someone traced us back to Portugal,
to the De Silva family.
So, if I'm speaking to a Swaridish group,
I say, yeah, I'm descended from the De Silva.
If I'm speaking to a Chassidim group,
I say, yeah, I come from Vengro.
So, the answer is, it all depends who's paying me.
This has been David Olavsky
with the question and answer series.
Thank you.
