[How Do You Come Up With Chiddushim?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/come-up-with-chiddushim)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series.
Anonymous asks,
How many hours a week do you study the Parsha?
I always wish I could come up with basic ideas or chidushim on my own.
How do you do it?
Which mefarshim do you do each week?
What guidance and advice would you give someone that wants to start coming up with his own original ideas on the Parsha?
Ruba the Ruba of the chidushim that I have on Parsha
come from Rashi.
Chumashim Rashi.
Now, I was 30 years old.
I had never done all of Chumashim Rashi.
And I remember it was Parsha's truma.
And I suddenly realized I didn't know how the Mishkan works.
I don't know if I've ever done this on my podcast, my five-minute walk through the Mishkan,
but I demystitize the Mishkan.
I don't know if I've ever done it on the podcast.
I'll have to check.
So I said to somebody, I don't understand.
I don't get the whole Mishkan.
How did it not fall down?
And he explained to me piece by piece the whole Mishkan.
I said, how do you know that?
He says, Chumashim Rashi.
I said, where do you find time to do Chumashim Rashi?
He says, when I was a Bachar, I had a Seder, Motzi Shabbos, and I would go through all of Chumashim Rashi.
And I said, wow, that is amazing.
And I set out to do that.
I made a decision.
I'm going to finish Chumashim Rashi.
So I've already established in earlier podcasts, I have dyslexia, ADD, and, you know, a lot of gaps in my Jewish education.
So to sit down and do something which should be relatively simple as Chumashim Rashi was not so simple for me.
So what I did is I took the children's Chumashim Rashi, this one here.
I like this one.
It's got big letters.
It's easy to see the Rashi.
And what I would do is I would count how many pages there are in a parasha divided by five.
And I would set a goal for myself every day to do that.
This way I have two extra days in case I fall behind.
And I wanted to understand Shat and the Rashi.
Now, they didn't have all these fancy English ones back then.
They only had the old linear Rashi back then, if you wanted to look something up.
But otherwise, you didn't really have all these fancy Rashi tools they have today.
And I sat there and I read through it and worked through it until I felt like I had at least a basic understanding.
And then the second year, I did it again.
And I didn't remember anything from the first year.
I must have remembered something.
But for the most part, I didn't remember anything.
And then I did it the third year.
Same thing again.
By the third year, I was surprised by how much I had retained from the first two years that I wasn't even aware of.
Now, I find the same thing was true with Daf Yomi.
I'm in my third cycle of Daf Yomi.
And my first cycle of Daf Yomi, I described it as looking out the window of a train.
You look out.
You go to the bathroom.
You get a drink.
You read a little bit.
You check your phone.
You go back and look out the window.
That's what it was like.
I saw little glimpses of Shas.
Second year was much better.
Second time, I mean.
Second cycle.
This is my third cycle.
I actually feel like I'm getting much more of a kenyan on it.
The same thing happened to me with Khemesh and Rashi.
After those first three years, it was much easier.
And I would basically just have to chaser it over because I already more or less knew it.
But the beauty of Khemesh and Rashi is every time you look at it, you suddenly look at it again and you go,
Hey, how come it says that?
Hey, wait a second.
Why does it say that?
Why did it do this?
Why is it like this?
You start to note little points in Rashi that you didn't realize before.
And I filed them away.
Somebody, I once gave a shir on the Parsha.
Someone asked me, how long did it take you to prepare that?
I said, 25 years.
Because I got the question 25 years ago.
And I'd always think about it.
My wife, who's an intellectual, says to me, why don't you just look it up?
You know, I want you to look at something before Shem.
And I said, because I want to think about it.
Come up with my own ideas.
Like you say, my own chidushim.
And I would think about it.
And that a lot of those helped me slowly develop my own ideas and my own things.
Now, if I'm going to give a shir on that Rashi, I have my own ideas, then I'm going to research it.
So, I have a sefer like this.
And I'll go through them.
I have some others.
I have the Taz on Rashi.
I have the Bartonur on Rashi.
I have a few other Mephoshim on Rashi.
And I go through all of them to see what points they're making, what I'm missing.
If I can find somebody who asks my question, that's great.
Sometimes you can find it.
Sometimes you can't.
I had a question.
Rashi says by Yochevet and Miriam that in the schus of saving the babies, they had bought him.
It says, from Yochevet came Botei Kohuna and Botei Leviah.
And from Miriam came Botei Malchus.
Okay.
Moshe, Aaron, that's pretty clear where you got Kohanim and Leviah.
But Miriam had to marry into Beis David, into Yehuda.
And eventually from there came David.
It was much less direct.
But I had a bigger question when I saw that Rashi.
And that is, why for what Yochevet did, did she deserve Botei Kohuna and Botei Leviah?
And why what Miriam did, did she deserve Malchus?
And I was able to find an answer for my Yochevet question.
I could not find anything on Miriam.
I went through all the svarim that I had on Chumash.
I have a lot of them.
I like to get different svarim and Chumash that give me different ideas.
I couldn't find anybody who talks about it.
And a friend of mine has the Otzer Chochma, with all of those.
And I said, do a search for me.
And he comes back to me and says, one place.
There was a Shaila and Shuvah Sefer.
I forgot what it was called.
Not one of the more popular ones.
And in the Hak Doma, he dedicates his Sefer to his mother, who was named Miriam.
And he asked this question and gives an answer.
I had one question one time.
And someone said to me, the only place they talk about it is in the rough draft of Gvuras Hashem.
Someone has a copy of the original Gvuras Hashem before the Maharal edited it.
And there he answered the question.
But he took it out when he wrote Gvuras Hashem.
But I'll sit with a question for years.
Years and years.
And every year I'll look at that Rashi and I'll ask myself the question again.
Sometimes I can find an answer and sometimes I can't.
Sometimes I find an answer and I'm not happy with it.
But for me, it's Chumash and Rashi.
That's what I do.
I go over it and over it.
And every year I get another insight, another idea.
And sometimes I just revisit questions that I've had in the past.
That's my suggestion.
This is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
