[What Is R' Orlofsky's Favorite Mussar Sefer?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/favorite-mussar-sefer)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with my question and answer series.
What is Rabbi Olavsky's favorite Musa Sefer besides Masil Shashar?
Now obviously Masil Shashar I've been giving Shuriman for 35 years,
so it's a very good question like that.
When we talk about Musa Seferim, let's talk about what that means.
Rabbi Che told the story about a fellow who during Musa Sefer in Yeshiva was learning Mishle.
And Rabbi Che said to him, that's not what we learned during Musa Seder.
And he says to him, but it's the Musa Sefer.
He says, I'm writing this to teach you Musa, it's the classic Musa Sefer.
And Rabbi Che says, a little too classic.
What does that mean?
That means that the other Musa Svarim that had been written over time
and draw on Tanakh and Chazal to put it together in a way for us.
So that's Musa Svarim.
Orch HaSadikim, Shari Tshuva, Sefer Yarshah, right?
The next level, though, is basically Svarim on Musa that's either a collection of Shmuzan
or ideas that are set up in a more modern way to try to deal with basic Hashkafa Musa ideas.
Perhaps the most famous Sefer on Shmuzan is, of course, Sichas Musa by Rabbi Cheyenne Shmuelavitz.
And I use that for reference, but it doesn't speak to me the same way
as the most, in my opinion, most amazing Sefer on this.
And it was Rabbi Yitzchak Isaac's share.
They put out a collection of his Shmuzan called Leket Tzichus Musa.
Every one of those Shmuzan that I read talks to me directly.
And I gain something directly.
I have mentioned this more than once because I've quoted him many times in various Shior.
And I have been told more than once by people.
So, you came to my community to speak and you mentioned this wonderful Sefer, Leket Tzichus Musa,
and I went out to get it and you were right.
It was the best Musa Sefer I ever read.
Everything was relevant.
Everything spoke to me.
I appreciate when you speak and your speeches,
but the greatest thing you ever gave me was that Sefer introducing me to the Shmuzan of Yitzchus HaZeg.
So, that's what I would choose.
There's three volumes.
The first one is according to the Parthios.
The second and third have collections on different things,
including his insights into Masil Shasharim,
which is in the second volume,
and things on the Yom Tovim.
It speaks to me.
Everybody has different people who speak to them.
For me, it speaks to me.
This is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
