[What Kavanah Does R' Orlofksy Have When Saying Shema?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/shema-kavana)

Hi, this is Robert Yolofsky with our question and answer series.
An anonymous asks, Hi, Rabbi Yolofsky.
When I was in seventh grade, my rebbe mentioned
that if you don't have in mind the meaning of the first Pusach and Shema,
you aren't Yotzeh.
He then proceeded to ask every kid in the class
what they had in mind and responded to each one,
No, that's wrong.
You would never make him mitzvahs, kriya, shema in your life.
When he finished going through the class, he gave a little speech
about how if you're in Amoritz, you miss out on mitzvahs.
What he failed to do is actually answer the question.
It's now 15 years later, and while I remember all this vividly,
I'm still not sure what true translation and kavanah I should have.
I checked a number of sidurim, and they all gave slightly different translations.
Can you please clarify this?
Okay.
We just finished kriya shema in my tefillah online class that I give,
and we spent a lot of time on it, and we went through it.
But obviously, you're looking for a thumbnail answer to this question.
There's much more to say.
So I'm going to do it very simply, the kavanah that I have when I say kriya shema.
Shema Yisrael.
Listen, all the Jewish people, because what I have to say is important for everybody, including me.
Hashem Elokeinu.
Hashem who is our God.
Hashem Echad is one.
And one does not mean one as opposed to two or three or four.
Because in that case, you wouldn't say echad, you'd say reshon,
as Rashi explains at the beginning of Barathe.
Vayayav Echad means unity.
Totalness, infinity, everything.
All together is echad.
Our God is not like any other God.
Hashem Echad.
He is one.
All of the other gods, they want sacrifices.
They want stuff from you.
Read Odysseus about the gods and how they approached situations.
It was all about what they needed and what they wanted.
God has no wants and no needs.
He's echad.
And therefore, he created the world for us and not for himself.
Why?
For us to get the greatest possible pleasure, as the Mesil Hashem says.
And that's what I think every morning.
Shema Yisrael.
Hashem Elokeinu.
Our God is not like all the other gods.
Hashem Echad.
He is infinite and doesn't need anything.
And therefore, he made the world for us to get this tremendous pleasure of being close to Hashem.
That's in a nutshell.
That anybody can focus on.
This is David Orlovsky with our question and answer series.
Rabbi Orlovsky.
Rabbi Orlovsky.
Yes?
Is the Orlovsky Pesach program still happening?
Of course.
My Pesach plans fell through.
Do you happen to have any available rooms?
Well, the truth is, we were totally sold out by Tuba Shvat.
But because of the current situation, the skies over Israel are closed and there's a lot of people who had to cancel who are going to come in from outside of Eretzong.
So yes, we do have some rooms available.
Is the hotel equipped with the proper safety requirements?
This is very safe.
We have bomb shelters.
We have secure areas.
I would not take people to a place that I thought was dangerous.
Rabbi Orlovsky.
Is there a safe room going to be at a day camp?
Yes.
We've got the counselors lined up.
They're very excited to run it.
I hope that you'll have a wonderful time in our face.
How about bouncy castles?
Bouncy castles?
We're going to have bouncy castles the whole face off.
We're going to have animal shows.
We're going to have magic shows.
We're going to have all kinds of fun things.
Okay, I'll make sure to tell my parents.
That's great.
So tell your parents to click on the link below.
