[Why Do We Call G-d "Hashem"?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/why-do-we-call-g-d-hashem)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with the Question and Answer series.
Hannah says,
I was just wondering why we call God Hashem.
Oh, so one of the top ten commandments of all time is
Thou shalt not take the Lord's name in vain.
Yeah, we're very careful about that.
We go out of our way not to mention Hashem's name.
Therefore, if you look in the Torah and you see Hashem's name,
you will see that it is something we do not pronounce.
There are a group called the blank witnesses
who have no problem saying God's name,
at least in the English.
We don't say that.
Only the Kohen Gadol and the Beis Hamikdash.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha
with the name Ado, which ends as we know Noi, which basically means my master. Yeah. And we say that during davening. We don't even say that when it's not during davening or in Kedusha. We say Ado Shem. But even that's too close to the real thing.
So therefore the custom is to just when we want to refer to God to use the term the name. I'm not going to say the name of God. I'm just going to say HaShem.
There used to be a custom that people would write on top of a paper Beis He for Baruch HaShem. There were some people who didn't even want to write that He.
And so they changed it to Beis Samech Daled, which is Aramaic, Besiyata Deshmaya, which means with the help of heaven.
And so that's how far we go to be careful from saying HaShem's name. And we say when we need it, when we're teaching a kid how to say a bracha, we teach him how to say it.
And then we say, no, no, don't say it. But when a kid is learning for his bar mitzvah, they're very careful.
Don't practice going, Baruch HaTah Hashem. Because that's what you'll do when you're up there.
So we tell them, practice the brachas using Shem HaShem because you'll forget and you'll make that mistake.
But we're very careful with taking the Lord's name in vain.
This is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
Thank you.
