[Would Time Travel Be A Good Thing Or A Bad Thing?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/time-travel)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series.
And somebody writes in, if time travel were invented tomorrow, would that be a good thing or a bad thing?
That's an easy one.
Somebody asked me, what happens if you die and you get up to heaven and you see Jesus is waiting for you?
I said, then I know I went the wrong way. That's all. Turn around.
But how are you sure? I'm sure.
Trust me, I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't think I was right.
I was once challenged by a Reformed student on campus.
So you think you're the only one who's right?
I said, of course, I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't think I was right.
Jews did not give up their life for centuries thinking that maybe they were wrong.
That would work out really awkward.
And so even though the Christians believe that all of us non-believers are going to be tossed into the pit of hell
and burn from an eternal damnation fire, I'm not really worried.
I'm pretty secure. I'm going the right way.
So there's nothing for me to discuss.
What if your dreams were reality and your reality were dreams?
I would have to check myself into a mental institution.
That's what I would do.
Time travel is impossible.
It's impossible. Nobody's going to do it.
It can't go.
There's no such a thing as going back in time.
And so when you say would time travel be good or be bad,
there is one instance of time travel.
There is only one instance of time travel.
And that is, Rebchayim Shmuelovitz says,
the Rambam says,
you end the year 50-50.
Half schuyas and half chovos.
And if you do tshuva,
then you'll move yourself over.
So the Kesv Mishnah asks,
what do you have to do tshuva?
Just do one more mitzvah.
And that will tip the balance.
So Reb Itzala Blazer says,
because if you don't do tshuva on the Aseris Mei tshuva,
it's so terrible,
it doesn't matter what else you do.
You'll never make up for it.
Rebchayim Shmuelovitz says,
because it doesn't help you.
If you have one more mitzvah now,
that just gets added to next year's account.
But you ended last year 50-50,
and you can't change it.
But when you do tshuva,
you go into the past,
and that Misa is now filled with regret,
and now you can remove the Avera retroactively.
That's the only instance of time travel
I can possibly think of.
But if you want to go back into the past,
and warn Moshe Rabbeinu,
don't hit the rock.
You want to go back into the past,
you know,
and kill baby Hitler,
or whatever the different ideas are,
it's not going to work.
So don't even go there.
This is David Olavsky
with the Question and Answer series.
And then,







I'll see you next time.

I'll see you next time.


I'll see you next time.
