[Should I Donate A Kidney?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/should-i-donate-a-kidney)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series, where we answer your questions.
Sola Schwartz asks a question, I am healthy and a good candidate to donate a kidney.
Is there any halakhic or hashkafic reason not to?
Full disclosure, right? Speak to your own pisik. I am not a pisik.
You know, I'm like that guy who, this fellow comes over and yells at the rabbi, you're a crook, you're a liar, you're a amarets, all these terrible things.
The rabbi's all upset and the shamash says, don't listen to him, he just repeats what he hears.
So I just repeat what I hear. I'm a simple guy.
There's an entire firm organization dedicated to getting healthy people to give kidneys to people who don't have.
People whose kidneys have failed, it's a death sentence.
You can only stay on dialysis for so long.
If you don't get a kidney, it's the end of it.
You have two. Now, don't get me wrong, you need them.
You know, that's why God gave them to you.
But you can live with one kidney.
Now, unlike liver, when you donate a part of your liver, your liver grows back, your kidney does not.
So, there is obviously a firm organization, and they have pisikim, that say, if you're a good candidate, and you can do it, you'll give somebody the gift of life.
Unbelievable thing.
Now, if you're like me, and you have diabetes and heart disease, I'm more in line to be a recipient than I am to be a donor.
Right now, they're more or less working okay.
Really, I know.
All right.
Yeah.
But if you have any health problems or anything like this, then of course not.
But if you're in a situation where you can do it, it is an, to my understanding, is an unbelievable chesed.
But like I say, check with the pisik, make sure you get it straight.
Don't rely on, you know, rabbis talking on the internet.
That's not the way we make decisions.
For all you know, I'm AI.
I may not even exist.
So, that's the idea.
It's good to look into it.
But to my mind, if you're healthy and you can do it, it's an unbelievable chesed.
This is David Olowski with our question and answer series.
