[Do You Have to Believe Every Story You Hear?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/do-you-have-to-believe-every-story-you-hear)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
We're in a few minutes. We try to answer a listener's questions.
William Blackowitz, if I'm pronouncing that correctly,
as you read this Hadarus de facto and Icar of Emunah,
especially regarding the legends of the Shtetl,
about kids who knew Shas Baalpeh and Hasir Shurebis
who performed miracles and witnessed Elio Anovi,
do they have a status of being part of the Masorah
such that anyone who doubts them is in the category of an Apikaris.
So the Ksai says that that's the reason the Rambam put together
the Yud Gimel Ikrim, the 13 Animamans.
I have to believe there's a God.
I have to believe that he gave the Torah.
I have to believe in the rabbinic tradition.
I have to believe in Tcheh Asam Eisim.
I have to believe in Olam Haba.
All those things that he writes there.
That's it.
Those are the only things that are red lines
that you absolutely have to believe.
And if you don't believe in that, you can.
But when you're asking about Yuridus Hadarus,
whether or not you have to believe in it,
you don't have to.
But the concept of Yuridus Hadarus is the following.
Very important to understand.
And Ribiak Ramanetsky was on a plane
sitting next to a professor from Hebrew University.
And Ribiak Ramanetsky's grandson kept coming over
to check if he was okay, if he needed anything.
And finally the professor said,
if my grandson was on this plane,
he would not want anyone to know who I am.
He'd walk the other way.
So he says, sure, because you believe in evolution.
So you believe we came from monkeys.
So you're a bigger monkey than your grandson.
So why would your grandson want to hang around with you?
But we believe that Hashem gave the Torah on Harsinai.
And I'm two generations closer to Mamed Harsinai than he is.
So that gives me a special status.
And so obviously the further away we move from Harsinai,
the weaker we become.
Now, is it absolute? Of course not.
Because the Vilna Goyen argued with Rishonim.
And obviously felt that he could.
And there were other people along the lines
who were considered out of their generation.
Somebody who was above and beyond
where they should fit in historically.
So Uridas Dauras being an absolute,
it's clearly not an absolute.
But logically, does it make sense
that there should be Uridas Dauras?
That is, each generation,
the further away we get,
the less clear it becomes?
Sure.
Sure, it makes sense to say that.
There can be exceptions.
But as a rule,
it makes sense to say that,
yeah, as we move further away from our Harsinai,
our understanding and our hold on it
becomes weaker.
And so that's the concept of it.
But if you don't want to believe in it,
I'm okay with that.
I won't lose any sleep over it.
Can Elio Anavi appear?
Well, there's stories in the Gemara
where Elio Anavi appears to,
you know, Tanayim and Amarayim
and learns with them
and speaks with them
and, you know, does things with them.
So if you want to accept
that Elio Anavi can appear today
and learn with people, fine.
If not, not.
Could be the Chavetz Chaim made up the story.
It could be when Chaim Velozhinah
met this fellow
who told him of her heart
and he told it to the Guru.
He says, yeah, that was Elio Anavi.
So it could be they were all wrong.
I'm all wrong.
I won't lose any sleep over that
if that's what's bothering you.
But does it make sense logically?
I think so.
This is David Olavsky
with our question and answer.
Thank you.
Thank you.
