[Where In The Torah Does It Say That We Can't Wear Sneakers To School?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/where-in-the-torah-does-it-say-that-we-cant-wear-sneakers-to-school)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
Our school instituted a rule against sneakers.
Where in the Torah does it say that we have to wear loafers to school?
It's in Devarim, thou shalt not wear sneakers.
No, I'm just kidding.
Of course, there's no Isser written in the Torah.
But there is an Isser of listening to the Chachamit.
That's a sort of catch-all.
You can fit almost anything into that.
And there's also a mitzvah of Kavad HaToyrah.
To Mechah be'y To'yrah.
And therefore, there is a way that a ben Torah is supposed to dress.
There is a way that I'm supposed to behave in a Beis Medrash.
There are Hilchahs Beis HaMedrash, Hilchahs Beis HaKnesses.
There's a way that as a Torah Jew, I have to behave.
And I'm old enough to remember where in public schools they had a dress code.
And you had to wear, if you were a boy, slacks.
And a button-down shirt.
And shoes.
No sneakers.
No dungarees.
No t-shirts.
And girls had to wear a blouse and a skirt.
You know, and shoes.
Not sneakers.
Yes, when you went to gym class, you could switch into your sneakers or switch into your exercise clothes.
But in class, I still remember when I was growing up, there was what we called our school clothes.
And my mother would always say, when you come home, change out of your school clothes and put on your play clothes.
And then at some point, they did away with it.
And the whole structure of education collapsed.
Because, you know, if the school is the street and there's no differentiation, and there's no covoid.
It's very interesting.
One of the things that these charter schools do, they attract kids from poor neighborhoods, is they have a uniform.
You come to school like a mensch.
I'm talking about non-Jewish charter schools.
You have to set a standard.
There's a way that you dress and a way you behave.
So, I taught in seminary.
They did not have a dress code, per se.
They didn't have to wear a uniform shirt and pleated skirt, whatever, you know.
But, you know, I was supposed to have a dress in a way, obviously, that was tsenua.
Unfortunately, I don't know.
The girls understood what that meant.
Because common sense is not as common as it used to be.
But I used to have certain rules in my class.
I only had three rules.
Turn off your cell phone, no talking, no gum chewing.
So, over the years, people would say, I understand why I can't have my phone on because if it rings, it'll disturb.
And I can understand why I can't talk because it'll disturb.
What do you care if I chew gum?
I said, because the Queen of England will never chew gum.
In fact, the Queen of England, if she came into a room, would never take off her coat.
She'd go into a back room to take off her coat or she'd wear her coat.
She felt it was undignified for the Queen of England to undress in front of people, even if it meant taking off her coat.
And she maintained a sense of COVID.
You'll never see a Kala under the Chope chewing gum.
It's not a COVID dick.
I said, for 45 minutes, twice a week, in my class, you're going to see yourself the way I see you.
And I see you as a Choshev of Bastoyer.
When you go out of here, I don't care what you do.
You can allow yourself to abuse yourself and be abused as much as you want.
But in here, you're somebody Choshev to me, and you're going to act like a Choshev of a person.
And girls, no, I meant it.
I took it very seriously.
I made a real effort to learn everybody's names.
And someone said to me, nobody does that.
You're the only teacher.
Everybody else just calls out the names and checks it, or they even give it to a girl to do the role.
I said, because when I do the role, I learn your names.
And I feel like if you're taking my class twice a week, I owe it to you to figure out who you are.
And I want to know your name, and I want to know who you are, because you're somebody Choshev to me.
Now, when you consider that I had anywhere between 80 and 100 girls between my two classes,
and I taught for almost 20 years.
That's like 20,000 names.
No, 2,000 names.
It's like 2,000 names.
And I don't have the best memory in the world.
And I can usually remember people, but I don't always remember their names.
I remember them.
I tell them where they were sitting.
Or someone came to visit me from like 20 years ago, and she tells me her name, and I'm looking at her.
And I said, and she was wearing a shetal.
I said, didn't you used to be blonde?
And she goes, yeah, I'm still blonde.
How did you remember that?
I said, I remember you sat right over there.
So, you know, you try to make a commitment to people because they're Choshev.
We don't go to school wearing our jean skirts.
We don't go wearing our sneakers.
We don't go chewing gum.
We don't have push-down socks.
We dress like somebody who is Choshev.
Remember, in Chavetz Chaim, the reshiva of Henuch was always very makbut on this.
He says, a guy who's learning in Kolo should come to yeshiva like a junior executive.
He would insist that they wore ties.
You know, you have to come in and look at somebody to Choshev.
You have to carry yourself with that.
And any gentleman out there who has ever had to wear a tuxedo, you know, just putting on a tuxedo, you right away think you're James Bond.
You want to go over to the bar and go, martini, shake it, not stirred.
You know, you feel that you're Choshev because you're dressed Choshev.
And when you're dressed like a schlump, you feel like a schlump.
You know, there's people who sleep in their sweats and they get up in the morning, don't even bother getting dressed.
You know, and they sit at the computer and they're eating a sandwich and wipe their hands on their thing.
Okay.
That's how much they think of themselves.
And if you're more careful of how you dress and how you act, and like I say, your school clothes at least,
so then you'll have a different approach to yourself and to your role in this world.
This is David Orlovsky with the Question and Answer Series.
