[If Rabbi Orlofsky was a fruit, which fruit would he be?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/fruit)

Hi, this is David Olomsky with the ongoing question and answer series of shorts,
just to be able to catch up on all of our bits of business.
Now, you know, I mentioned, when I mentioned back on the podcast we were going to do this,
I said, you know, there's different types of questions.
Some of them are silly questions.
So, depending on the level of the silliness, I'll address it or not.
But, you know, here's a silly question.
If Rabbi Olomsky was a fruit, which fruit would he be?
So, I never liked these things, you know.
Girls tell me in Shidduchim, you know, like the Shadokim will say,
what animal do you associate with?
And I think, how demeaning to Abbas Yisrael to even think of her as a, you know, as an animal.
I mean, I find that so insulting.
But you could argue that Adam Eitz Hasodeh, that a person is a tree that produces fruit in this world, you know.
And so, therefore, what type of a tree producing fruit would you be?
Yeah.
So, that's a good question.
Yeah.
I've never thought about it, obviously.
I would definitely say I'm not a citrus fruit.
Because citrus fruit take a long time to peel.
Trust me, I have a lot of kids.
I would send them to school.
And you have to make like a little simonium in it so that they can peel it.
Sometimes they can't.
They bring it to the Garnet to peel it.
And Garnet's complained about how they have to peel all these clementinas and oranges and things, you know,
and how difficult it is.
So, there's a lot of peel.
There's a lot of time.
And I'm not like that.
Everyone knows exactly what I think.
You don't have to peel anything to get to the fruit.
You know exactly who I am.
So, it's got to be, you know, a type of a fruit.
So, you might think an apple, maybe.
Because, you know, it has an edible peel.
It's very easy.
It's sweet, you know.
And I sort of resemble an apple a little bit, you know.
But, obviously, I moved to Yetzirah 37 years ago.
So, it must be one of the shivus aminim.
Yeah.
So, based on my tremendous level of low self-esteem, I'd be inclined to say a rimon.
Because a rimon is, of course, the fruit that is maximum soillus and has only little bits of sweetness in it.
But I don't think that's really fair, you know.
I think, if I think of the fruit, and I'm going now with the shivus aminim of what's left, I would have to say a tamar.
Because, first of all, tamar helps you get chokhmah.
Tamar is intoxicating.
And there's no question that I'm definitely habit-forming.
And tamar is very sweet.
And I'm certainly very sweet.
And tamar represents taiva.
That's why when it says,
V'chol sa'ar v'chol devash,
you should not put in any honey into the carbon ice.
Right?
It's talking about devash tamarim, what today we call silan.
But that was their devash.
Their honey was from there.
And it's so sweet, it represents taiva.
And that's why there are two girls in Tanakh named tamar.
And both of them are involved in stories of taiva.
So, since I'm number one, very sweet, and number two, a tremendous baltaiva,
and also a bit of a chokhm,
I would definitely have to say, upon close examination,
I would go with a tamar.
And that's it.
That was the best I came up with.
Sadiq katamar yifrach,
keres balvanan yiske.
Yeah.
Tomah devorah.
Interesting that devorah sits under a tamar.
And her name is devorah, which is a bee,
which also makes honey.
Yeah.
So, you bring all that honey together.
And so, I'm going to go with that.
And that's it.
We need sponsors, by the way.
Please go to my website, reverialofsky.com,
if you want to sponsor a question and answer,
so we can keep doing this.
And until next time, I am David Orlovsky.
