[What Does Emunah Peshutah Really Mean?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-does-emunah-peshutah-really-mean)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with that question and answer series.
I've always learned that Amunah Pshuta is a higher level than Amunah through Chakira.
And at some point you will get to a question that you may not find an answer to,
and that's where your Amunah Pshuta kicks in.
How does that fit in with all of what you have said?
What does this mean when we talk about Amunah Pshuta?
Simple faith.
So people think simple faith just means, I just believe.
I just believe whatever you say.
I said in that case you will never have the Amunah, the perfect faith of a Mormon.
Because if you can believe in Mormonism, there's no evidence to support it whatsoever.
Joseph Smith claimed an angel led him to a mountain in upstate New York,
and he dug up these golden plates and he transcribed them and no one ever saw the plates
and no one ever understood it.
You just have to believe Joseph Smith.
I said no Jew is ever going to have that level of faith because we have too much evidence on our side.
But if you could have that level of faith, wow, that's unbelievable.
That's not what Amunah Pshuta means.
Amunah Pshuta means, as I heard Mati Berger explain it once, is,
how do you know that you exist?
Okay, so Descartes asked this question.
And he gives the answer, I think therefore I am.
Okay, it's a fine answer.
The Rizal gives a similar type of an answer.
But the fact that I know that I'm having thoughts, whoever's having these thoughts exists,
that's great.
But if you need that to be able to get out of bed in the morning,
there's something seriously wrong with you.
If I wake up in the morning, I say, one second, how do I know I exist?
The answer is I know I exist because I know that I exist.
And if you believe in HaKadosh Baruch Hu because you are so sure of his existence
like you are of your own existence, then that's unbelievable.
That's Amunah Pshuta.
But let's be honest.
How many people actually have that level?
So when people say, I have Amunah Pshuta, they just mean, I never thought about it.
And you tell me there's a God.
Okay.
But do I know that God exists like my own existence?
Do I sense God's existence?
No, nobody does.
So yeah, if you have worked on it, as the Rambam says,
I am the Lord your God, means that you should know that God exists.
How do you do that?
But you work on understanding and the proofs of God until it becomes so clear to you
that God exists like you know your own existence.
But let's be real.
Until you reach that point and a person says Amunah Pshuta,
they're just saying, I never really thought about it.
Yeah, you tell me God exists.
Okay.
But not because I'm feeling God's presence.
So I have to start from it.
Avram Avinu did not have Amunah Pshuta.
He went through the process of examining every belief that existed his time.
He served every Avodah Zara.
He went down every single pathway until by process of elimination,
he figured out a Kodesh Baruch Hu.
And then God appeared to him.
But until you do the work, to say I have Amunah Pshuta is just a cop-out.
In order to have Amunah Pshuta,
you have to have gone through the intellectual exercise
of being able to figure out that God is actually there.
This has been David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
