[Can Someone Really Curse You?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/can-someone-really-curse-you)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
We're in a few minutes.
We try to give answers to the questions that our listeners have submitted.
Someone wrote, is there a significance to curse us in these days?
What about a non-Jews curse?
Do things people consider a curse in today's world,
like using a particular finger, have any significance?
So, Avram Avinu, when he began his mission to become the chosen people,
Kiddush Baruch Hu said to him,
I will bless the people who bless you, and those who curse you, I'll curse.
So it's backwards.
It should have said, I'll bless the people who bless you and curse the people who curse you.
It doesn't.
It says, I will bless the people who bless you, and those who curse you, I will curse.
Why?
Because somebody wants to bless you, I will first give them blessing.
Because a person who's a rich person and is healthy and is good gives a better bracha.
And somebody wants to curse you, I'll curse him after he curses you.
Because a poor person, a sick person, their curse is much worse.
A rich person curses you, he says, I hope your air conditioning breaks down.
I hope your car gets a scratch.
What does he know about suffering?
But a poor person who knows hunger and disease, their curse is a terrible curse.
So who are we talking about?
We're only talking about non-Jews.
There was nobody else in the world.
Right?
It means anybody can give you a blessing and anyone can give you a curse.
The Gemara brings different examples of non-Jews who gave blessings.
And the Gemara says,
A simple person's blessing should not be light in your eyes.
And the same thing is true by a curse.
Anybody's blessing and anybody's curse has an effect.
Now obviously, if I can quote Mad-Eye Moody from book four of Harry Potter, where it turns out it wasn't really Mad-Eye Moody.
It was really Barty Crouch pretending to be Mad-Eye Moody.
But I don't want to get there.
But he was teaching them the death curse.
Avada Kedavra.
And he says,
All of you could point your wands at me now and say,
Avada Kedavra, and I won't get even a nosebleed.
Because you need power to put it into a curse.
The same thing is true about an Ayin Hara.
Anyone can give you an Ayin Hara.
But depending on who the person is, the curse will have that much more power.
And the same thing is true about a blessing.
Anyone can give you a blessing.
But obviously, a God of the Torah who gives you a blessing is much more effect.
But can anyone give a blessing and anyone give a curse?
Sure.
So when we say a curse today, we have to be careful of differentiating between
what is a curse and using a curse word.
A curse word is called not using Lashon Nikia.
That's not a curse.
But when a person says to you, drop dead.
You know?
Or choke on it.
You know?
Or I, you know, any terrible thing that a person says,
that is definitely a curse.
And can it affect you?
Of course it can affect you.
Likewise, anyone who gives you a blessing,
that blessing can take effect.
And so, yeah.
We don't want anyone to curse us.
And we want people to bless us.
Even if the person is a simple person.
A simple blessing.
It should not be light in your eyes.
And the same thing is true by a curse.
Why?
Because everybody has the power of speech.
And speech is what went into the creation of the world.
Baruch she'amar v'hayah ha'olam.
Blessed is he who spoke and the world came into existence.
Vayom elokim, v'yom elokim.
And God spoke and said, let there be light.
And God spoke.
It's the words.
That's why the Maharal points out the relationship between the words
dabar and davar.
Speak and thing.
Because everything is a result of a speech, of a word.
And therefore, we should know that our words carry power in them.
And so, therefore, we should always make sure that our words should be blessings and not curses.
And with that thought in mind, I bless all of the listeners to the Rabbi Olavsky show,
to our question and answers to the Parashant Five.
Whether you're Jew or non-Jew, religious or not religious.
Yeah.
Young and old.
Whoever you are, I give you a bracha that through listening to the words of insight that I share
and the schuss that you have listened to my words, I bless you.
That I give you the blessing my mother used to give before Rosh Hashanah Yim Kippur.
I wish you everything you wish for yourself.
That you should have all the blessings in the world.
This is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
Thank you.
