[Why Is One Earring Piercing Okay And Two Are Not?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/why-is-one-earring-piercing-okay-and-two-are-not)

Hi, this is Dodo Lofsky with our question and answer series.
Why is one earring piercing okay and two are not?
I preface this by saying, obviously, we're talking about in a society
where it is looked down upon to have more than one earring piercing.
So, the Gemara says the following.
In a place where women wear veils, you should not go unveiled.
And in a place where they don't wear veils, you should not veil your face.
Which means when it comes to the laws of tznius, of what is considered acceptable,
a lot of it has to do with local custom of what people take upon themselves.
There are some places where women do not cover the lower part of their legs.
And there are places where women do.
And in the places where women do, women should not go without socks.
Because that is the prevailing custom.
And let's just say that we can see throughout history that these rules change.
There was a time when no man would go out wearing trousers.
Trousers were considered an undergarment.
And I'm stressing the use of the word trousers.
Because we in America call them pants.
And in England, pants mean undergarments.
But that used to be the case for everybody.
In the Middle Ages, people wore this long shirt robe.
And they wore their pants underneath.
And if you see the kohanim, the kohanim had what was called mechnasayim.
Pants that they wore and a long robe that came down to their feet.
That was the way, that was the accepted way for people to dress.
And so to wear regular trousers was considered not tzhanuah.
Well, Hasidim still feel that way.
That's why they wear long coats to cover over.
Because trousers show the form of the body.
And that is considered not tzhanuah.
Yeah?
So if you're in a society where they cover themselves,
then that is considered what's acceptable.
There was a time when women wore nose rings.
And I'm talking about regular women like Rivka.
You know, they would wear a nose ring.
In addition to an earring.
And then at some point, women stopped wearing nose rings in certain societies.
So if you're in a society where they don't wear nose rings and they wear one earring,
then that's what's considered tzhanuah.
That's what's considered modest.
And if you're in a place where they wear multiple earrings or nose rings,
or they used to wear a choker around their neck,
a really tight choker,
that's what's considered tzhanuah.
So to say what is considered tznius in each society,
every society has to make that decision for themselves.
Who's in charge of that?
I don't know.
I don't know if there's a vat tznius that is officially put in charge of it or not.
But the answer is,
you can see what society norms are.
I told the story where I went to Chavetz Chaim.
Chavetz Chaim did not dress in black and white.
They said if you look at the pictures of the yeshivas,
Mir and Slovakia in Europe,
everybody wore colored shirts,
everybody wore colored hats.
When I came to Israel,
nobody does.
So I changed my outfits,
more or less to fit in with the society.
And when I went back to America,
somebody said you're becoming one of them.
I said, why?
He says, because it shouldn't matter what you wear.
I said, you're right.
I practice what you preach.
I don't lose any of who I am by,
instead of wearing a blue shirt,
I wear a white shirt.
Instead of wearing a gray hat,
I wear a black hat.
I didn't sacrifice anything of who I am.
But that's how society dresses.
And why would I go out of my way
to dress differently?
You know?
And the general idea is
that you try to fit in.
I'll tip freshman at C-board.
And if that's the way
that the C-board dresses,
unless I have an overriding reason,
I will not go against
the accepted way of behaving.
This is David Olavsky
with our question and answer series.
Thank you.
