[What's The Purpose Of Learning High School Level Math?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/whats-the-purpose-of-learning-high-school-level-math)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our question and answer series.
Somebody wrote in, what's the purpose of learning high school level math?
I don't know.
I think because otherwise, you know, you'll end up using your time poorly.
So now, let's be fair.
If you're considering becoming an engineer or some sort of profession where you need
math, I understand 100% why you need these kind of things.
I guess I'm going to be a computer programmer, etc., you know.
But there are certain Gemaras where it'll definitely help you when you come to the
Gmarin Ervin, where it talks about making a circle around the city and then squaring it,
you know, and how to figure out the circumference versus the area.
I'm sure that would definitely come in handy.
I know if you want to figure out the various permutations of letters, like the Yudke Vavke,
the way you calculate the different combinations, the formula of 1 times 2 times 3 times 4.
Whereas if you wanted to do Elohim, it would be 1, 2, 3 times 4 times 5.
It means 125 different combinations.
So some of these things will help.
I'm not sure why you need the geometric proofs.
I have been in, you know, education for close to 50 years.
And I've been asked many questions over the years.
But never did anyone ever ask me,
Are the base angles of an isosceles triangle congruent?
To which I would respond, yes.
And then they'd say to me, but can you prove it?
And I'd say, yes, I can prove it three ways.
I can drop line AD and bisect angle A and then use side angle side.
I could bisect the line BC.
And then I have side, side, side.
I could do, it doesn't matter.
The point is, I've never needed this.
So there were definitely areas.
But to be fair, I didn't go into the hard sciences, you know,
that require math and science.
I went much more into, you know, the areas that require people skills.
And there are people who may have mastered mathematics
and aren't very good at English, speaking in composition,
or in history, or things like that,
that I like to think that I did pretty well in.
So in England, it's very interesting.
In England, they have what are called the O-levels and the A-levels.
So when you reach a certain point in high school,
so you take the O-levels, and that's the basic.
If you want to continue onwards, you take the A-levels,
and you're only going to take the courses that you think you might need,
depending on what you plan on doing in life.
So that definitely would make a difference.
You could argue that all knowledge is good for you,
and it sharpens your mind,
and, you know, it'll help you in,
it'll help you in Gemara and Peya,
or in Kilayam,
or in other areas like that.
It could very well be.
But, I don't know.
Any equation that begins with self or X,
I'm out.
I don't have X.
I don't need X.
I'm doing quite fine.
But there is a concept of what they used to call
a liberal arts education,
where you should know everything.
The more that you're exposed to,
knowledge can only help you.
But, obviously, it all depends on
where you're going and what you're going to use it for.
There was a movie called Peggy Sue Gets Married,
and she basically gets hit on the head,
and she wakes up, and she's a teenager again,
and she's in high school.
And they're taking some kind of a math test, you know.
And she hands in a blank paper,
and they said,
What did you do, Peggy Sue?
And she says,
I know for a fact I'm never going to need this.
But you don't know.
You don't know what you're going to need,
you know.
I remember they had this problem.
Said to a kid,
You have three apples,
and you have to divide it among eight people.
What do you do?
He says,
Make applesauce.
Anyway,
so,
like I say,
all knowledge is valuable.
But if you're saying,
Do I need it?
It really depends on what you decide to do in life.
And since we don't always know
where our interests lie,
it's good to study many different things.
This has been David Olavsky
with our question and answer series.
