[What Is The Boundary Between Excess Gashmiyos And Essential Gashmiyos?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/what-is-the-boundary-between-excess-gashmiyos-and-essential-gashmiyos)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series, where in a few minutes we try to answer listeners' questions.
What is the boundary between excess gashmias and essential gashmias, and how can I find it?
That's a very good question.
And, understand, it does not have one answer.
Because it depends very much on a person.
Yeah?
Now, the Gemara Nksuvah talks about an ani ben tuvim.
I came from a wealthy family, and I'm used to eating on a particular Ramah.
And if I don't eat on that Ramah, it's going to be very hard for me.
Now, your parents brought you up poorly.
Your parents brought you up to have higher expectations.
If your parents brought you up very simply, then you wouldn't need these things.
But you grew up in a wealthy family.
Then your family lost your money.
And this is what you're used to.
So the Gemara says, the halacha is that when you give out staka,
you give people not the bare essentials, but what they're used to.
It tells the story of this fellow who grew up rich, and he lost his money.
And he comes to one of the Amorayim, and he says,
Bimafarnes mi Rabbi, support me.
He says, well, what are you used to having?
He says, old wine and fatted fowl.
He says, well, I'm having lentils and I'm drinking water.
If you want, you can join me.
He's like, I guess I have nothing else to eat.
He ate it and he died.
The system couldn't tolerate it.
So it's a nebuch if you've created yourself that you become dependent on this.
But l'mayse, you need it.
My father made an observation.
During the week, people don't eat that much.
We travel around.
We do different things, you know.
Grab a cup of coffee, get a sandwich.
But he would go away to a hotel in the summer.
And you eat three meals a day, and that's mostly what you do in a Jewish resort.
You eat, you eat, you eat, you eat a tremendous amount of food.
He says, so we had breakfast, and then we packed up and we get on the road.
And lunchtime, I'm famished.
I'm starving.
And I'm not used to that.
But when you get yourself used to a particular lifestyle,
it's hard to go back.
There's something in America called the Monday morning blues.
Where does it come from?
It comes from the fact that there's a weekend.
Yeah?
Saturday and Sunday.
And people eat to excess.
And people stay up too late.
And people wake up late.
And it throws off their whole system.
And now comes Monday, you have to go back to a normal system.
And you're not used to it.
But it's very hard for you.
So, what a person needs, and it was very interesting,
David Gottlieb pointed out,
that there was this fellow who was rich,
and he lost his money.
And Hillel would get him every day a horse to ride,
and a slave to run in front of the horse to clear the path.
And one time, he couldn't find,
he didn't have the money to hire somebody.
So, he ran in front of the horse himself.
Hillel, the Nasi.
So, he said,
you don't need somebody to run in front of your horse.
That's a COVID.
And Gottlieb said,
you see from this that a psychological need is a need.
I feel like I need it.
It's not in absolute terms.
Yeah?
And that's why the Masil Shisham,
in Paragyut Gimel,
when he describes precius,
he says,
bad precius means denying yourself things that you need,
whatever they may be.
Even if they're just,
even if it's just a psychological need,
but be real.
So, there are things in our life
that are definitely excess that we don't need.
But there are things that we get used to.
Now, it would be smart,
living,
to wean yourself off of those things
and make your life easier for yourself.
Because, as the Masil Shisham writes,
to maintain a lifestyle
with all these fancy things,
you know,
when you're used to drinking
$200 bottles of wine
Friday night,
and a few of them,
when you have to go back to the Ketam Kiddush wine,
which, frankly,
the Ketam grape juice
has more alcohol than that does,
you know,
it's going to be very hard for you
because you're not used to it.
If you're used to eating,
you know,
fine cuts of meat,
and then you have to switch to a cheaper one,
it's going to be very difficult for you
because you're not used to it.
And so,
it's smart for you
to limit the Gashmias.
But the amount of Gashmias
that you need,
physically and psychologically,
that's called how much Gashmias you need.
But,
if you can wean yourself off of it,
the more you can wean it off of yourself,
the better it's going to be for you in the long run.
This is David Olavsky
with our question and answer series.
