[Should Rich People Teach Bitachon?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/should-rich-people-teach-bitachon)

Hi, this is Don Olavsky with that question and answer series.
We're in a few minutes, we'll try to answer listeners' questions.
Why do we listen to bitachem shiurim from rich people?
Wouldn't it be better to listen from poor people?
Well, I have to tell you, I know poor people who don't have any bitachem also.
And I know some rich people who have a tremendous amount of bitachem.
Now, I don't know if you're referring to this specifically,
but I know there's a fellow in New York who makes these little recordings about bitachem.
My kids listen to them and they get a tremendous amount of chizik from them.
And he is wealthy, but he stresses,
I did not start out wealthy. I was not born wealthy.
I was born to a single mother without any money and I built myself up and I managed to succeed in life
because I had bitachem.
And I understand that a Kiddush Baruch Hu could take everything away from me in a second.
And I know people who it's happened to.
Wealthy people have lost it.
So, to think that a wealthy person doesn't need bitachem, doesn't need trust in God,
and to think that every poor person has bitachem is a mistake.
Bitachem is an attribute that has nothing to do with your financial situation.
Naqdimian Ben-Gurion was a very wealthy person.
And there was no water for the Oli Regolim who were coming for Yontif.
It hadn't rained.
And so, he made a deal with the Roman governor to give them water for everybody.
And I'll pay it back by this date.
If not, I'll pay you the money.
And it was an enormous amount of money.
Basically, more than he had.
Being a wealthy person does not guarantee that you have limitless funds.
You know, these people who are pushing in America universal health care,
they say we should tax the billionaires.
And if you took the money from all the billionaires and all the millionaires,
and everybody who has over $100,000,
it's still not enough money to pay for universal health care.
So, come on, be real.
You know, just because a person has money doesn't mean that it's limitless and that you can do anything.
It's nice to think.
You certainly can go out to eat, but it doesn't mean that you can do anything.
Yeah.
So, comes the day, and there's no water.
So, he says, okay, you know, pay up.
He says, it's still the morning.
Comes the afternoon.
He says, okay, pay up.
He says, day's not over yet.
Toraj Shkiah.
He goes into the base of Mikdash, and he says,
HaKadosh Baruch Hu, you know that what I did, I did not do.
For me, or for the honor of my family.
I did this for you, that the only regalim should have water.
I need your help now.
There was not a cloud in the sky.
And suddenly, all the clouds gather, and it starts pouring.
And it pours, and it pours, and it pours, and it fills up all the cisterns, and all of the wells, and all of the reservoirs.
Unbelievable.
So, he comes out, and the king says, very impressive.
But, too late.
You missed the deadline.
It was Peshkir.
Past sunset.
So, he goes into the base of Mikdash, and he says,
HaKadosh Baruch Hu, you know what I did, I did not do for me, or for my honor, or for my family's honor.
I did this for your honor.
I need help.
And just then, the clouds part, and the sun is still in the sky.
So, he was one of the wealthiest Jews.
But he knew he needed Bitochen.
So, having money is no guarantee to having Bitochen or not having Bitochen.
And likewise, being poor is no guarantee.
There are people who don't have money, and they spend their whole time worrying and worrying and running around here.
Where am I going to get money from?
What am I going to do?
It's no guarantee.
Listen to anybody who has developed their sense of Bitochen.
That's who you should listen to.
Dr. Olavsky with our question and answer series.
Thank you.
