[The Women Didn’t Sin, So Why Destroy Everyone?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/the-women-didnt-sin-so-why-destroy-everyone)

Hi, this is David Olavsky with our Question and Answer series.
If the women didn't sin at Chet Egel,
why did Hashem have a habimunite to destroy the whole Klai Yisrael
and rebuild from Moshe Rabbeinu?
This is such an interesting question.
I'm going to expand the question a little bit.
I have been asked by girls,
why do I have to dress sanua?
Because boys are going to look and have bad thoughts?
Tell them not to look.
Why do I have to dress in a way that I don't find comfortable because of them?
Yeah?
So, this is a fascinating question,
and I'm going to add another level to the question.
People say to me,
I understand why all the irreligious Jews got killed in the Holocaust,
but how come all the religious Jews and the tzaddikim got killed in the Holocaust?
I've been asked all these different questions,
and the answer to all of them is the same idea.
And that is the concept of kol Yisrael arevim zet lazeh.
We are all responsible for each other.
And therefore, although there is an idea of looking at a person as an individual,
there's also a concept, I should say,
of everyone having to be part of kol Yisrael.
Just like if parents make a bad decision for the family,
it affects everybody in the family,
even though it was nobody's fault.
A mother decides to smoke crack when she's pregnant.
The kid comes out with all kinds of disabilities.
It wasn't the baby's fault.
But we affect each other.
We are one organism.
Or as the Gemara Yerushalmi puts it,
if you're cutting a piece of meat,
and you accidentally cut your left hand,
your left hand doesn't get angry and grab the knife,
and cut your right hand.
Because they understand that it's all the same thing.
You understand that you're all one person.
So that being the case,
we're one people.
And so the women,
and the levium,
and everybody are responsible for each other,
and everybody has to
care for each other.
We don't have that luxury
of saying,
oh, it's about me, it's not about them.
They sinned, they didn't sin.
Right?
Right?
So,
Shevet Levi,
which was its own group,
completely.
Right?
A Shevet is called an Am.
They have their own
identity as a people.
They're able to survive.
But the women were not their own group.
They're all the wives and daughters and sisters of the men who sinned.
Now, I assume it would go without saying that when he was going to destroy everybody,
he wasn't going to destroy people who could break off from the cloud.
But at the beginning,
before Hashem,
so to speak,
made that exception,
all of Klai Yisrael,
even Shevet Levi,
who had nothing to do with it,
would have all been destroyed.
Yeah?
And then,
that would have been,
that would have been the consequences of what took place.
Because we have to understand
that every one of us takes responsibility for each other,
and we have to care for everybody.
And that's the idea,
I think,
for all of Klai Yisrael.
This has been David Olavsky
with that question and answer series.
