[Why Do We Shukle?](https://www.rabbiorlofsky.com/qa-podcast/why-do-we-shukle)

Hi, this is David Olomsky with our question and answer series.
Why do we, or at least some of us, shakal?
Now, I know we have all kinds of different members of the audience.
You may not be familiar with the word shakal.
Shakal is this.
You see Jews sometimes swaying, yeah?
And there are different types of shakalers.
This is standard shakaling.
Then there's alternative shakaling.
Go from side to side.
Then there's more of the intense shakal.
And then there's the more aerobic shakaling.
You know what I'm saying?
But it is pretty common.
So the simplest explanation is, you probably remember when you were a kid and you had to speak in front of the class.
And they would tell you, don't fidget.
Stand straight.
Why?
Because that's not natural.
Your body has a rhythm.
Even Jews have rhythm.
I got rhythm.
And so if you just let, you see when you're walking, you know how your arm swings by your side?
And if you try to hold it straight, it's more difficult.
Your body has a natural rhythm.
And so since when we're davening, the focus is on kavanah, to be able to concentrate.
So the more that we let ourselves, you know, into the experience, so it makes it easier for us to concentrate.
That's the idea of shakaling.
Others say it's based on a posseh in Tehillim, which you can find in the tefillah of Nishmas,
that we say at the end of Pesuket Zimra on Shabbos morning.
It quotes the posseh in Tehillim.
Kadovah Shekosuv in Tehillim.
Ko atzmosai tomana Hashem mi hamoicha.
All of my bones say who is like Hashem.
So in order to do that, we're not just using our mouth.
We're using all of our bones, our entire body, in the process of praising HaKadosh Baruch Hu.
That's another explanation that people give for shakaling.
But at the end of the day, you know, try.
Try standing perfectly still without moving and concentrate.
And then try letting your body just go with the motion.
Go with the flow.
Yeah?
And see what happens.
This is David Olowski with our question and answer.
